docs/ios/hot-restart.md, before:

---
title: ".NET MAUI hot restart for iOS device deployment"
description: "Hot restart enables you to quickly deploy a .NET MAUI iOS app to a local device, from Visual Studio 2022, without requiring a Mac build host."
ms.date: 12/03/2024
ms.custom: sfi-image-nochange
---

# Deploy an iOS app using hot restart

Typically when building an app, your code is compiled and combined with other project resources to build an app bundle that's deployed to your simulator or device. With this model, when you make a change to your app, a new app bundle has to be built and deployed. While incremental builds can help to reduce compilation time, deployments usually take the same amount of time regardless of the size of the change.

.NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) hot restart enables you to quickly deploy a .NET MAUI app to a 64-bit local iOS device, from Visual Studio 2022, without requiring a Mac build host. It removes the need for a full app bundle rebuild by pushing changes to the existing app bundle that's already present on your locally connected iOS device. It supports changes to code files, resources, and project references, enabling you to quickly test changes to your app during its development.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Hot restart isn't a replacement for the full build experience provided by a Mac build host. For example, it can only deploy apps that use the debug build configuration, and it doesn't support static libraries and frameworks, XCFrameworks, or binding resource packages. For more information, see [Limitations](#limitations).

There are a number of requirements that must be met to use hot restart to deploy a .NET MAUI app to a locally connected iOS device:

- You must be using Visual Studio 2022 version 17.3 or greater.
- You must have iTunes (Microsoft Store or 64-bit version) installed on your development machine.
- You must have an [Apple Developer account](https://appleid.apple.com/account) and paid [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs) enrollment.

## Setup

Perform the following steps to set up hot restart:

1. In the Visual Studio toolbar, use the **Debug Target** drop-down to select **iOS Local Devices** and then the **Local Device** entry:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/local-device-debug-target.png" alt-text="Screenshot of choosing the initial debug target for hot restart.":::

1. In the Visual Studio toolbar, select **Local Device**:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/run-local-device.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the initial debug target chosen for hot restart.":::

    The **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard will appear, which will guide you through setting up a local iOS device for hot restart deployment.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Next**:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the first step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

1. If you don't have iTunes installed, the setup wizard will prompt you to install it. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Download iTunes**:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the second step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    > [!NOTE]
    > iTunes can either be installed from the Microsoft Store, or by downloading it from [Apple](https://www.apple.com/itunes/).

    Wait for iTunes to download and then install it. If you install it from the Microsoft Store, once the installation completes please open it, then follow additional prompts to enable it to discover locally connected devices.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Next** to move to the next step of the wizard that will prompt you to connect a local iOS device:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-3-no-device.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the initial third step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

1. Connect your iOS device to your development machine via a USB cable. A prompt may appear on your device asking you to trust your development machine. On your device, click **Trust** and follow any additional device prompts.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Next** once your local iOS device is detected:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-3-device-found.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed third step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    > [!NOTE]
    > If the setup wizard fails to detect your local iOS device, disconnect then reconnect your local iOS device from your development machine. In addition, ensure that iTunes recognizes your local iOS device.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, click the **Sign in with an individual account** hyperlink to configure hot restart to use your individual Apple Developer Program account:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-4-add-account.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the initial fourth step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    The **Individual account** dialog appears.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Alternatively, to configure hot restart to use an enterprise Apple Developer account, click the **Sign in with an enterprise account** hyperlink and enter your credentials in the dialog that appears. Then proceed to step 12.

1. Create an App Store Connect API key. This will require you to have an [Apple Developer account](https://appleid.apple.com/account) and paid [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs) enrollment. For information about creating an App Store Connect API key, see [Creating API Keys for App Store Connect API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api) on developer.apple.com.

1. In the **Individual account** dialog, enter your App Store Connect API key data:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/appstore-connect-api-data-completed.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed dialog for adding an Apple Individual account.":::

    The **Name**, **Issuer ID**, and **Key ID** data can be found in [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/) by selecting **Users and Access** and then the **Integrations** tab:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/app-store-connect-details.png" lightbox="media/hot-restart/app-store-connect-details-large.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Apple App Store Connect API details.":::

1. In the **Individual account** dialog, click the **Add** button. The **Individual account** dialog will close.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, click the **Finish** button:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-4-account-added.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed fourth step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    Your Apple Developer Program account will be added to Visual Studio and the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard will close.

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click on your project and select **Properties**.
1. In the project properties, expand **iOS** and select **Bundle Signing**. Use the **Scheme** drop-down to select **Automatic Provisioning** and then click the **Configure Automatic Provisioning** hyperlink:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/bundle-signing-automatic-provisioning.png" alt-text="Screenshot of automatic provisioning enabled within the iOS property page in Visual Studio.":::

    The **Configure Automatic Provisioning** dialog will appear.

1. In the **Configure Automatic Provisioning** dialog, select the team for your Connect API key:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/automatic-provisioning-configured.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the automatic provisioning dialog when it's correctly configured.":::

    Visual Studio will complete the automatic provisioning process. Then, click the **Ok** button to dismiss the **Configure Automatic Provisioning** dialog.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Using automatic provisioning is recommended so that additional iOS devices can be easily configured for deployment. However, you can use manual provisioning if the correct provisioning profiles are present on your machine.

## Deploy and debug using hot restart

After performing the initial setup, your local connected iOS device will appear in the debug target drop-down menu. To deploy and debug your app:

1. Ensure that your local connected iOS device is unlocked.
1. In the Visual Studio toolbar, select your local connected iOS device in the debug target drop-down, and click the **Run** button to build your app and deploy it to your local iOS device:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/recognized-device-debug-target.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the chosen debug target for hot restart.":::

1. After deploying your app, Visual Studio will display the **Connecting Debugger** dialog:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/launch-app-device.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the dialog asking you to launch the app on your device.":::

    Launch the app on your device and Visual Studio will connect the debugger to your running app, and the **Connecting Debugger** dialog will be dismissed.

While you're debugging your app, you can edit your C# code and press the restart button in the Visual Studio toolbar to restart your debug session with the new changes applied:

:::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/restart-button.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the restart button on the Visual Studio toolbar.":::

## Prevent code from executing

The `HOTRESTART` preprocessor symbol can be used to prevent code from executing when debugging with hot restart:

```csharp
#if !HOTRESTART
  // Code here won't be executed when debugging with hot restart
#endif
```

## Enable hot restart

Hot restart is enabled by default in Visual Studio 2022. If it's been previously disabled, it can be enabled by selecting **Tools > Options** from the Visual Studio menu bar. Next, in the **Options** dialog box, expand **Xamarin** and select **iOS Settings**. Then, ensure that **Enable Hot Restart** is checked:

:::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/enable-hot-restart.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to enable hot restart within Visual Studio.":::

## Limitations

There are limitations when using hot restart:

- It can only be used to deploy apps that use the debug build configuration. You'll still need a Mac build host to build, sign, and deploy your app for production purposes.
- Storyboard and XIB files aren't supported, and your app may crash if it attempts to load these at runtime.
- Static iOS libraries, and frameworks containing static libraries, aren't supported and you may see runtime errors or crashes if your app attempts to load these.
- XCFrameworks and binding resource packages are supported, as long as they don't contain static iOS libraries or frameworks with static libraries.
- Asset catalogs aren't supported. When using Hot Restart, your app will show a .NET icon and launch screen.

## Troubleshoot

iOS uses a watchdog that monitors app launch times and responsiveness, and terminates unresponsive apps. For example, the watchdog terminates apps that block the main thread for a significant time. On old iOS devices, the watchdog may terminate an app that's been deployed using hot restart before the debugger has connected to it. The workaround is to reduce the amount of processing performed in the app's startup path, and to use a more recent iOS device.

To report additional issues, please use the feedback tool at [Help > Send Feedback > Report a Problem](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/home#report-a-problem&preserve-view=true).

Commit message:

Hot Restart updates (#3030)
* Hot Restart updates

Ref: https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/t/iOS-Hot-Restart-is-not-supported-in-VS-2/10968329

* Update text.

docs/ios/hot-restart.md, after:

---
title: ".NET MAUI hot restart for iOS device deployment"
description: "Hot restart enables you to quickly deploy a .NET MAUI iOS app to a local device, from Visual Studio 2022, without requiring a Mac build host."
ms.date: 12/03/2024
ms.custom: sfi-image-nochange
---

# Deploy an iOS app using hot restart

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Hot Restart is not supported in Visual Studio 2026: You can continue using Hot Restart in Visual Studio 2022 (version 17.14) to deploy .NET MAUI and .NET iOS apps to a local iOS device without a Mac build host. For newer versions of Visual Studio, the recommended solution is to use [Pair to Mac](~/ios/pair-to-mac.md) to build, deploy, and debug iOS apps.

Typically when building an app, your code is compiled and combined with other project resources to build an app bundle that's deployed to your simulator or device. With this model, when you make a change to your app, a new app bundle has to be built and deployed. While incremental builds can help to reduce compilation time, deployments usually take the same amount of time regardless of the size of the change.

.NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) hot restart enables you to quickly deploy a .NET MAUI app to a 64-bit local iOS device, from Visual Studio 2022, without requiring a Mac build host. It removes the need for a full app bundle rebuild by pushing changes to the existing app bundle that's already present on your locally connected iOS device. It supports changes to code files, resources, and project references, enabling you to quickly test changes to your app during its development.

> [!IMPORTANT]
> Hot restart isn't a replacement for the full build experience provided by a Mac build host. For example, it can only deploy apps that use the debug build configuration, and it doesn't support static libraries and frameworks, XCFrameworks, or binding resource packages. For more information, see [Limitations](#limitations).

There are a number of requirements that must be met to use hot restart to deploy a .NET MAUI app to a locally connected iOS device:

- You must be using Visual Studio 2022 version 17.3 or greater.
- You must have iTunes (Microsoft Store or 64-bit version) installed on your development machine.
- You must have an [Apple Developer account](https://appleid.apple.com/account) and paid [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs) enrollment.

## Setup

Perform the following steps to set up hot restart:

1. In the Visual Studio toolbar, use the **Debug Target** drop-down to select **iOS Local Devices** and then the **Local Device** entry:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/local-device-debug-target.png" alt-text="Screenshot of choosing the initial debug target for hot restart.":::

1. In the Visual Studio toolbar, select **Local Device**:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/run-local-device.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the initial debug target chosen for hot restart.":::

    The **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard will appear, which will guide you through setting up a local iOS device for hot restart deployment.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Next**:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-1.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the first step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

1. If you don't have iTunes installed, the setup wizard will prompt you to install it. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Download iTunes**:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-2.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the second step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    > [!NOTE]
    > iTunes can either be installed from the Microsoft Store, or by downloading it from [Apple](https://www.apple.com/itunes/).

    Wait for iTunes to download and then install it. If you install it from the Microsoft Store, once the installation completes please open it, then follow additional prompts to enable it to discover locally connected devices.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Next** to move to the next step of the wizard that will prompt you to connect a local iOS device:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-3-no-device.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the initial third step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

1. Connect your iOS device to your development machine via a USB cable. A prompt may appear on your device asking you to trust your development machine. On your device, click **Trust** and follow any additional device prompts.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, select **Next** once your local iOS device is detected:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-3-device-found.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed third step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    > [!NOTE]
    > If the setup wizard fails to detect your local iOS device, disconnect then reconnect your local iOS device from your development machine. In addition, ensure that iTunes recognizes your local iOS device.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, click the **Sign in with an individual account** hyperlink to configure hot restart to use your individual Apple Developer Program account:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-4-add-account.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the initial fourth step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    The **Individual account** dialog appears.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Alternatively, to configure hot restart to use an enterprise Apple Developer account, click the **Sign in with an enterprise account** hyperlink and enter your credentials in the dialog that appears. Then proceed to step 12.

1. Create an App Store Connect API key. This will require you to have an [Apple Developer account](https://appleid.apple.com/account) and paid [Apple Developer Program](https://developer.apple.com/programs) enrollment. For information about creating an App Store Connect API key, see [Creating API Keys for App Store Connect API](https://developer.apple.com/documentation/appstoreconnectapi/creating_api_keys_for_app_store_connect_api) on developer.apple.com.

1. In the **Individual account** dialog, enter your App Store Connect API key data:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/appstore-connect-api-data-completed.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed dialog for adding an Apple Individual account.":::

    The **Name**, **Issuer ID**, and **Key ID** data can be found in [App Store Connect](https://appstoreconnect.apple.com/) by selecting **Users and Access** and then the **Integrations** tab:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/app-store-connect-details.png" lightbox="media/hot-restart/app-store-connect-details-large.png" alt-text="Screenshot of Apple App Store Connect API details.":::

1. In the **Individual account** dialog, click the **Add** button. The **Individual account** dialog will close.

1. In the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard, click the **Finish** button:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/setup-wizard-4-account-added.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the completed fourth step in the setup hot restart wizard.":::

    Your Apple Developer Program account will be added to Visual Studio and the **Setup Hot Restart** setup wizard will close.

1. In **Solution Explorer**, right-click on your project and select **Properties**.
1. In the project properties, expand **iOS** and select **Bundle Signing**. Use the **Scheme** drop-down to select **Automatic Provisioning** and then click the **Configure Automatic Provisioning** hyperlink:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/bundle-signing-automatic-provisioning.png" alt-text="Screenshot of automatic provisioning enabled within the iOS property page in Visual Studio.":::

    The **Configure Automatic Provisioning** dialog will appear.

1. In the **Configure Automatic Provisioning** dialog, select the team for your Connect API key:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/automatic-provisioning-configured.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the automatic provisioning dialog when it's correctly configured.":::

    Visual Studio will complete the automatic provisioning process. Then, click the **Ok** button to dismiss the **Configure Automatic Provisioning** dialog.

    > [!NOTE]
    > Using automatic provisioning is recommended so that additional iOS devices can be easily configured for deployment. However, you can use manual provisioning if the correct provisioning profiles are present on your machine.

## Deploy and debug using hot restart

After performing the initial setup, your local connected iOS device will appear in the debug target drop-down menu. To deploy and debug your app:

1. Ensure that your local connected iOS device is unlocked.
1. In the Visual Studio toolbar, select your local connected iOS device in the debug target drop-down, and click the **Run** button to build your app and deploy it to your local iOS device:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/recognized-device-debug-target.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the chosen debug target for hot restart.":::

1. After deploying your app, Visual Studio will display the **Connecting Debugger** dialog:

    :::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/launch-app-device.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the dialog asking you to launch the app on your device.":::

    Launch the app on your device and Visual Studio will connect the debugger to your running app, and the **Connecting Debugger** dialog will be dismissed.

While you're debugging your app, you can edit your C# code and press the restart button in the Visual Studio toolbar to restart your debug session with the new changes applied:

:::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/restart-button.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the restart button on the Visual Studio toolbar.":::

## Prevent code from executing

The `HOTRESTART` preprocessor symbol can be used to prevent code from executing when debugging with hot restart:

```csharp
#if !HOTRESTART
  // Code here won't be executed when debugging with hot restart
#endif
```

## Enable hot restart

Hot restart is enabled by default in Visual Studio 2022. If it's been previously disabled, it can be enabled by selecting **Tools > Options** from the Visual Studio menu bar. Next, in the **Options** dialog box, expand **Xamarin** and select **iOS Settings**. Then, ensure that **Enable Hot Restart** is checked:

:::image type="content" source="media/hot-restart/enable-hot-restart.png" alt-text="Screenshot of how to enable hot restart within Visual Studio.":::

## Limitations

There are limitations when using hot restart:

- It can only be used to deploy apps that use the debug build configuration. You'll still need a Mac build host to build, sign, and deploy your app for production purposes.
- Storyboard and XIB files aren't supported, and your app may crash if it attempts to load these at runtime.
- Static iOS libraries, and frameworks containing static libraries, aren't supported and you may see runtime errors or crashes if your app attempts to load these.
- XCFrameworks and binding resource packages are supported, as long as they don't contain static iOS libraries or frameworks with static libraries.
- Asset catalogs aren't supported. When using Hot Restart, your app will show a .NET icon and launch screen.

## Troubleshoot

iOS uses a watchdog that monitors app launch times and responsiveness, and terminates unresponsive apps. For example, the watchdog terminates apps that block the main thread for a significant time. On old iOS devices, the watchdog may terminate an app that's been deployed using hot restart before the debugger has connected to it. The workaround is to reduce the amount of processing performed in the app's startup path, and to use a more recent iOS device.

To report additional issues, please use the feedback tool at [Help > Send Feedback > Report a Problem](https://developercommunity.visualstudio.com/home#report-a-problem&preserve-view=true).
