docs/user-interface/controls/datepicker.md, before:

---
title: "DatePicker"
ms.date: 08/30/2024
---

# DatePicker

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> invokes the platform's date-picker control and allows you to select a date.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> defines eight properties:

- `MinimumDate` of type [`DateTime`](xref:System.DateTime), which defaults to the first day of the year 1900.
- `MaximumDate` of type `DateTime`, which defaults to the last day of the year 2100.
- `Date` of type `DateTime`, the selected date, which defaults to the value [`DateTime.Today`](xref:System.DateTime.Today).
- `Format` of type `string`, a [standard](/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings/) or [custom](/dotnet/standard/base-types/custom-date-and-time-format-strings/) .NET formatting string, which defaults to "D", the long date pattern.
- `TextColor` of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, the color used to display the selected date.
- `FontAttributes` of type `FontAttributes`, which defaults to `FontAtributes.None`.
- `FontFamily` of type `string`, which defaults to `null`.
- `FontSize` of type `double`, which defaults to -1.0.
- `CharacterSpacing`, of type `double`, is the spacing between characters of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> text.

All eight properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be styled, and the properties can be targets of data bindings. The `Date` property has a default binding mode of `BindingMode.TwoWay`, which means that it can be a target of a data binding in an application that uses the Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) pattern.

> [!WARNING]
> When setting `MinimumDate` and `MaximumDate`, make sure that `MinimumDate` is always less than or equal to `MaximumDate`. Otherwise, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> will raise an exception.

The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> ensures that `Date` is between `MinimumDate` and `MaximumDate`, inclusive. If `MinimumDate` or `MaximumDate` is set so that `Date` is not between them, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> will adjust the value of `Date`.

The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> raises a `DateSelected` event when the user selects a date.

## Create a DatePicker

When a `DateTime` value is specified in XAML, the XAML parser uses the `DateTime.Parse` method with a `CultureInfo.InvariantCulture` argument to convert the string to a `DateTime` value. The dates must be specified in a precise format: two-digit months, two-digit days, and four-digit years separated by slashes:

```xaml
<DatePicker MinimumDate="01/01/2022"
            MaximumDate="12/31/2022"
            Date="06/21/2022" />
```

If the `BindingContext` property of <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> is set to an instance of a viewmodel containing properties of type `DateTime` named `MinDate`, `MaxDate`, and `SelectedDate` (for example), you can instantiate the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> like this:

```xaml
<DatePicker MinimumDate="{Binding MinDate}"
            MaximumDate="{Binding MaxDate}"
            Date="{Binding SelectedDate}" />
```

In this example, all three properties are initialized to the corresponding properties in the viewmodel. Because the `Date` property has a binding mode of `TwoWay`, any new date that the user selects is automatically reflected in the viewmodel.

If the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> does not contain a binding on its `Date` property, your app should attach a handler to the `DateSelected` event to be informed when the user selects a new date.

In code, you can initialize the `MinimumDate`, `MaximumDate`, and `Date` properties to values of type `DateTime`:

```csharp
DatePicker datePicker = new DatePicker
{
    MinimumDate = new DateTime(2018, 1, 1),
    MaximumDate = new DateTime(2018, 12, 31),
    Date = new DateTime(2018, 6, 21)
};
```

For information about setting font properties, see [Fonts](~/user-interface/fonts.md).

## DatePicker and layout

It's possible to use an unconstrained horizontal layout option such as `Center`, `Start`, or `End` with <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker>:

```xaml
<DatePicker ···
            HorizontalOptions="Center" />
```

However, this is not recommended. Depending on the setting of the `Format` property, selected dates might require different display widths. For example, the "D" format string causes `DateTime` to display dates in a long format, and "Wednesday, September 12, 2018" requires a greater display width than "Friday, May 4, 2018". Depending on the platform, this difference might cause the `DateTime` view to change width in layout, or for the display to be truncated.

> [!TIP]
> It's best to use the default `HorizontalOptions` setting of `Fill` with <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker>, and not to use a width of `Auto` when putting <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> cell.

<!--
> [!TIP]
> On Android, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> dialog can be customized by overriding the `CreateDatePickerDialog` method in a custom renderer. This allows, for example, additional buttons to be added to the dialog. -->

## Localize a DatePicker on Windows

For apps targeting Windows, ensuring that the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> displays dates in a format that's localized to the user's settings, including the names of months and days in the picker's dialog, requires specific configuration in your project's *Package.appxmanifest* file. Localizing the elements in the package manifest improves the user experience by adhering to the cultural norms of the user's locale.

Localizing the date formats and strings in the `<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker>` requires declaring the supported languages within your *Package.appxmanifest* file.

Follow these steps to configure your <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> for localization on Windows:

1. Locate the Resources section.

   Navigate to the `Platforms\Windows` folder of your project and open the *Package.appxmanifest* file in a code editor or Visual Studio. If using Visual Studio, ensure you're viewing the file's raw XML. Look for the `<Resources>` section, which may initially include:

   ```xml
   <Resources>
       <Resource Language="x-generate" />
   </Resources>
   ```

1. Specify the supported languages.

   Replace the `<Resource Language="x-generate">` with `<Resource />` elements for each of your supported languages. The language code should be in the form of a BCP-47 language tag, such as `en-US` for English (United States), `es-ES` for Spanish (Spain), `fr-FR` for French (France) or `de-DE` for German (Germany).  For example, to add support for both English (United States) and Spanish (Spain), your `<Resources>` section should be modified to look like this:

   ```xml
   <Resources>
       <Resource Language="en-US" />
       <Resource Language="es-ES" />
   </Resources>
   ```

This configuration ensures that the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> will display date formats, months, and days according to the user's locale, significantly enhancing the app's usability and accessibility across different regions.

For more information about localization in .NET MAUI apps, see [Localization](~/fundamentals/localization.md).

Commit message:

Add example of a Datepicker on iOS

docs/user-interface/controls/datepicker.md, after:

---
title: "DatePicker"
ms.date: 08/30/2024
---

# DatePicker

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> invokes the platform's date-picker control and allows you to select a date.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> defines eight properties:

- `MinimumDate` of type [`DateTime`](xref:System.DateTime), which defaults to the first day of the year 1900.
- `MaximumDate` of type `DateTime`, which defaults to the last day of the year 2100.
- `Date` of type `DateTime`, the selected date, which defaults to the value [`DateTime.Today`](xref:System.DateTime.Today).
- `Format` of type `string`, a [standard](/dotnet/standard/base-types/standard-date-and-time-format-strings/) or [custom](/dotnet/standard/base-types/custom-date-and-time-format-strings/) .NET formatting string, which defaults to "D", the long date pattern.
- `TextColor` of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, the color used to display the selected date.
- `FontAttributes` of type `FontAttributes`, which defaults to `FontAtributes.None`.
- `FontFamily` of type `string`, which defaults to `null`.
- `FontSize` of type `double`, which defaults to -1.0.
- `CharacterSpacing`, of type `double`, is the spacing between characters of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> text.

All eight properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be styled, and the properties can be targets of data bindings. The `Date` property has a default binding mode of `BindingMode.TwoWay`, which means that it can be a target of a data binding in an application that uses the Model-View-ViewModel (MVVM) pattern.

> [!WARNING]
> When setting `MinimumDate` and `MaximumDate`, make sure that `MinimumDate` is always less than or equal to `MaximumDate`. Otherwise, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> will raise an exception.

The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> ensures that `Date` is between `MinimumDate` and `MaximumDate`, inclusive. If `MinimumDate` or `MaximumDate` is set so that `Date` is not between them, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> will adjust the value of `Date`.

The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> raises a `DateSelected` event when the user selects a date.

## Create a DatePicker

When a `DateTime` value is specified in XAML, the XAML parser uses the `DateTime.Parse` method with a `CultureInfo.InvariantCulture` argument to convert the string to a `DateTime` value. The dates must be specified in a precise format: two-digit months, two-digit days, and four-digit years separated by slashes:

```xaml
<DatePicker MinimumDate="01/01/2022"
            MaximumDate="12/31/2022"
            Date="06/21/2022" />
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> on iOS:

:::image type="content" source="media/datepicker/datepicker.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a datepicker.":::

If the `BindingContext` property of <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> is set to an instance of a viewmodel containing properties of type `DateTime` named `MinDate`, `MaxDate`, and `SelectedDate` (for example), you can instantiate the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> like this:

```xaml
<DatePicker MinimumDate="{Binding MinDate}"
            MaximumDate="{Binding MaxDate}"
            Date="{Binding SelectedDate}" />
```

In this example, all three properties are initialized to the corresponding properties in the viewmodel. Because the `Date` property has a binding mode of `TwoWay`, any new date that the user selects is automatically reflected in the viewmodel.

If the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> does not contain a binding on its `Date` property, your app should attach a handler to the `DateSelected` event to be informed when the user selects a new date.

In code, you can initialize the `MinimumDate`, `MaximumDate`, and `Date` properties to values of type `DateTime`:

```csharp
DatePicker datePicker = new DatePicker
{
    MinimumDate = new DateTime(2018, 1, 1),
    MaximumDate = new DateTime(2018, 12, 31),
    Date = new DateTime(2018, 6, 21)
};
```

For information about setting font properties, see [Fonts](~/user-interface/fonts.md).

## DatePicker and layout

It's possible to use an unconstrained horizontal layout option such as `Center`, `Start`, or `End` with <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker>:

```xaml
<DatePicker ···
            HorizontalOptions="Center" />
```

However, this is not recommended. Depending on the setting of the `Format` property, selected dates might require different display widths. For example, the "D" format string causes `DateTime` to display dates in a long format, and "Wednesday, September 12, 2018" requires a greater display width than "Friday, May 4, 2018". Depending on the platform, this difference might cause the `DateTime` view to change width in layout, or for the display to be truncated.

> [!TIP]
> It's best to use the default `HorizontalOptions` setting of `Fill` with <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker>, and not to use a width of `Auto` when putting <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> cell.

<!--
> [!TIP]
> On Android, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> dialog can be customized by overriding the `CreateDatePickerDialog` method in a custom renderer. This allows, for example, additional buttons to be added to the dialog. -->

## Localize a DatePicker on Windows

For apps targeting Windows, ensuring that the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> displays dates in a format that's localized to the user's settings, including the names of months and days in the picker's dialog, requires specific configuration in your project's *Package.appxmanifest* file. Localizing the elements in the package manifest improves the user experience by adhering to the cultural norms of the user's locale.

Localizing the date formats and strings in the `<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker>` requires declaring the supported languages within your *Package.appxmanifest* file.

Follow these steps to configure your <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> for localization on Windows:

1. Locate the Resources section.

   Navigate to the `Platforms\Windows` folder of your project and open the *Package.appxmanifest* file in a code editor or Visual Studio. If using Visual Studio, ensure you're viewing the file's raw XML. Look for the `<Resources>` section, which may initially include:

   ```xml
   <Resources>
       <Resource Language="x-generate" />
   </Resources>
   ```

1. Specify the supported languages.

   Replace the `<Resource Language="x-generate">` with `<Resource />` elements for each of your supported languages. The language code should be in the form of a BCP-47 language tag, such as `en-US` for English (United States), `es-ES` for Spanish (Spain), `fr-FR` for French (France) or `de-DE` for German (Germany).  For example, to add support for both English (United States) and Spanish (Spain), your `<Resources>` section should be modified to look like this:

   ```xml
   <Resources>
       <Resource Language="en-US" />
       <Resource Language="es-ES" />
   </Resources>
   ```

This configuration ensures that the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.DatePicker> will display date formats, months, and days according to the user's locale, significantly enhancing the app's usability and accessibility across different regions.

For more information about localization in .NET MAUI apps, see [Localization](~/fundamentals/localization.md).
