docs/user-interface/controls/entry.md, before:

---
title: "Entry"
description: "The .NET MAUI Entry allows you to enter and edit a single line of text."
ms.date: 08/30/2024
ms.custom: sfi-ropc-nochange
---

# Entry

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> allows you to enter and edit a single line of text. In addition, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> can be used as a password field.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> defines the following properties:

- `ClearButtonVisibility`, of type `ClearButtonVisibility`, controls whether a clear button is displayed, which enables the user to clear the text. The default value of this property ensures that a clear button isn't displayed.
- `HorizontalTextAlignment`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.TextAlignment>, defines the horizontal alignment of the text.
- `IsPassword`, of type `bool`, specifies whether the entry should visually obscure typed text.
- `ReturnCommand`, of type <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand>, defines the command to be executed when the return key is pressed.
- `ReturnCommandParameter`, of type `object`, specifies the parameter for the `ReturnCommand`.
- `ReturnType`, of type `ReturnType`, specifies the appearance of the return button.
- `VerticalTextAlignment`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.TextAlignment>, defines the vertical alignment of the text.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

In addition, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> defines a `Completed` event, which is raised when the user finalizes text in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> with the return key.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> derives from the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.InputView> class, from which it inherits the following properties:

- `CharacterSpacing`, of type `double`, sets the spacing between characters in the text content, including both the user-entered or displayed text and the placeholder text.
- `CursorPosition`, of type `int`, defines the position of the cursor within the editor.
- `FontAttributes`, of type `FontAttributes`, determines text style.
- `FontAutoScalingEnabled`, of type `bool`, defines whether the text will reflect scaling preferences set in the operating system. The default value of this property is `true`.
- `FontFamily`, of type `string`, defines the font family.
- `FontSize`, of type `double`, defines the font size.
- `IsReadOnly`, of type `bool`, defines whether the user should be prevented from modifying text. The default value of this property is `false`.
- `IsSpellCheckEnabled`, of type `bool`, controls whether spell checking is enabled.
- `IsTextPredictionEnabled`, of type `bool`, controls whether text prediction and automatic text correction is enabled.
- `Keyboard`, of type `Keyboard`, specifies the soft input keyboard that's displayed when entering text.
- `MaxLength`, of type `int`, defines the maximum input length.
- `Placeholder`, of type `string`, defines the text that's displayed when the control is empty.
- `PlaceholderColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, defines the color of the placeholder text.
- `SelectionLength`, of type `int`, represents the length of selected text within the control.
- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the text entered into the control.
- `TextColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, defines the color of the entered text.
- `TextTransform`, of type `TextTransform`, specifies the casing of the entered text.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

In addition, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.InputView> defines a `TextChanged` event, which is raised when the text in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> changes. The `TextChangedEventArgs` object that accompanies the `TextChanged` event has `NewTextValue` and `OldTextValue` properties, which specify the new and old text, respectively.

For information about specifying fonts on an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, see [Fonts](~/user-interface/fonts.md).

## Create an Entry

The following example shows how to create an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>:

```xaml
<Entry x:Name="entry"
       Placeholder="Enter text"
       TextChanged="OnEntryTextChanged"
       Completed="OnEntryCompleted" />
```

The equivalent C# code is:

```csharp
Entry entry = new Entry { Placeholder = "Enter text" };
entry.TextChanged += OnEntryTextChanged;
entry.Completed += OnEntryCompleted;
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> on Android:

:::image type="content" source="media/entry/entry.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a basic Entry on Android.":::

[!INCLUDE [Keyboard autoscroll manager](includes/keyboardautomanagerscroll.md)]

Entered text can be accessed by reading the `Text` property, and the `TextChanged` and `Completed` events signal that the text has changed or been completed.

The `TextChanged` event is raised when the text in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> changes, and the `TextChangedEventArgs` provide the text before and after the change via the `OldTextValue` and `NewTextValue` properties:

```csharp
void OnEntryTextChanged(object sender, TextChangedEventArgs e)
{
    string oldText = e.OldTextValue;
    string newText = e.NewTextValue;
    string myText = entry.Text;
}
```

The `Completed` event is raised when the user has ended input by pressing the <kbd>Return</kbd> key on the keyboard, or by pressing the Tab key on Windows. The handler for the event is a generic event handler:

```csharp
void OnEntryCompleted(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
   string text = ((Entry)sender).Text;
}
```

After the `Completed` event fires, any <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> specified by the `ReturnCommand` property is executed, with the `object` specified by the `ReturnCommandParameter` property being passed to the `ReturnCommand`.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.VisualElement> class, which is in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> inheritance hierarchy, also has `Focused` and `Unfocused` events.

## Set character spacing

Character spacing can be applied to an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> by setting the `CharacterSpacing` property to a `double` value:

```xaml
<Entry ...
       CharacterSpacing="10" />
```

The result is that characters in the text displayed by the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> are spaced `CharacterSpacing` device-independent units apart.

> [!NOTE]
> The `CharacterSpacing` property value is applied to the text displayed by the `Text` and `Placeholder` properties.

## Limit input length

The `MaxLength` property can be used to limit the input length that's permitted for the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>. This property should be set to a positive integer:

```xaml
<Entry ...
       MaxLength="10" />
```

A `MaxLength` property value of 0 indicates that no input will be allowed, and a value of `int.MaxValue`, which is the default value for an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, indicates that there is no effective limit on the number of characters that may be entered.

## Set the cursor position and text selection length

The `CursorPosition` property can be used to return or set the position at which the next character will be inserted into the string stored in the `Text` property:

```xaml
<Entry Text="Cursor position set"
       CursorPosition="5" />
```

The default value of the `CursorPosition` property is 0, which indicates that text will be inserted at the start of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>.

In addition, the `SelectionLength` property can be used to return or set the length of text selection within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>:

```xaml
<Entry Text="Cursor position and selection length set"
       CursorPosition="2"
       SelectionLength="10" />
```

The default value of the `SelectionLength` property is 0, which indicates that no text is selected.

## Display a clear button

The `ClearButtonVisibility` property can be used to control whether an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> displays a clear button, which enables the user to clear the text. This property should be set to a `ClearButtonVisibility` enumeration member:

- `Never` indicates that a clear button will never be displayed. This is the default value for the `ClearButtonVisibility` property.
- `WhileEditing` indicates that a clear button will be displayed in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, while it has focus and text.

The following example shows setting the property:

```xaml
<Entry Text=".NET MAUI"
       ClearButtonVisibility="WhileEditing" />
```

The following screenshot shows an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> on Android with the clear button enabled:

:::image type="content" source="media/entry/entry-clearbutton.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a basic Entry with a clear buttonon Android.":::

## Transform text

An <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> can transform the casing of its text, stored in the `Text` property, by setting the `TextTransform` property to a value of the `TextTransform` enumeration. This enumeration has four values:

- `None` indicates that the text won't be transformed.
- `Default` indicates that the default behavior for the platform will be used. This is the default value of the `TextTransform` property.
- `Lowercase` indicates that the text will be transformed to lowercase.
- `Uppercase` indicates that the text will be transformed to uppercase.

The following example shows transforming text to uppercase:

```xaml
<Entry Text="This text will be displayed in uppercase."
       TextTransform="Uppercase" />
```

## Obscure text entry

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> provides the `IsPassword` property which visually obscures entered text when it's set to `true`:

```xaml
<Entry IsPassword="true" />
```

The following screenshot shows an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> whose input has been obscured:

:::image type="content" source="media/entry/entry-password.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a basic Entry with IsPassword set to true.":::

## Customize the keyboard

The soft input keyboard that's presented when users interact with an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> can be set programmatically via the `Keyboard` property, to one of the following properties from the `Keyboard` class:

- `Chat` – used for texting and places where emoji are useful.
- `Default` – the default keyboard.
- `Email` – used when entering email addresses.
- `Numeric` – used when entering numbers.
- `Plain` – used when entering text, without any `KeyboardFlags` specified.
- `Telephone` – used when entering telephone numbers.
- `Text` – used when entering text.
- `Url` – used for entering file paths & web addresses.

The following example shows setting the `Keyboard` property:

```xaml
<Entry Keyboard="Chat" />
```

The `Keyboard` class also has a `Create` factory method that can be used to customize a keyboard by specifying capitalization, spellcheck, and suggestion behavior. `KeyboardFlags` enumeration values are specified as arguments to the method, with a customized `Keyboard` being returned. The `KeyboardFlags` enumeration contains the following values:

- `None` – no features are added to the keyboard.
- `CapitalizeSentence` – indicates that the first letter of the first word of each entered sentence will be automatically capitalized.
- `Spellcheck` – indicates that spellcheck will be performed on entered text.
- `Suggestions` – indicates that word completions will be offered on entered text.
- `CapitalizeWord` – indicates that the first letter of each word will be automatically capitalized.
- `CapitalizeCharacter` – indicates that every character will be automatically capitalized.
- `CapitalizeNone` – indicates that no automatic capitalization will occur.
- `All` – indicates that spellcheck, word completions, and sentence capitalization will occur on entered text.

The following XAML code example shows how to customize the default `Keyboard` to offer word completions and capitalize every entered character:

```xaml
<Entry Placeholder="Enter text here">
    <Entry.Keyboard>
        <Keyboard x:FactoryMethod="Create">
            <x:Arguments>
                <KeyboardFlags>Suggestions,CapitalizeCharacter</KeyboardFlags>
            </x:Arguments>
        </Keyboard>
    </Entry.Keyboard>
</Entry>
```

The equivalent C# code is:

```csharp
Entry entry = new Entry { Placeholder = "Enter text here" };
entry.Keyboard = Keyboard.Create(KeyboardFlags.Suggestions | KeyboardFlags.CapitalizeCharacter);
```

### Customize the return key

The appearance of the return key on the soft input keyboard, which is displayed when an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> has focus, can be customized by setting the `ReturnType` property to a value of the `ReturnType` enumeration:

- `Default` – indicates that no specific return key is required and that the platform default will be used.
- `Done` – indicates a "Done" return key.
- `Go` – indicates a "Go" return key.
- `Next` – indicates a "Next" return key.
- `Search` – indicates a "Search" return key.
- `Send` – indicates a "Send" return key.

The following XAML example shows how to set the return key:

```xaml
<Entry ReturnType="Send" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> The exact appearance of the return key is dependent upon the platform. On iOS, the return key is a text-based button. However, on Android and Windows, the return key is a icon-based button.

When the <kbd>Return</kbd> key is pressed, the `Completed` event fires and any <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> specified by the `ReturnCommand` property is executed. In addition, any `object` specified by the `ReturnCommandParameter` property will be passed to the <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> as a parameter. For more information about commands, see [Commanding](~/fundamentals/data-binding/commanding.md).

[!INCLUDE [Hide and show the soft input keyboard](includes/soft-input-extensions.md)]

The following example shows how to hide the soft input keyboard on an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> named `entry`, if it's currently showing:

```csharp
if (entry.IsSoftInputShowing())
    await entry.HideSoftInputAsync(System.Threading.CancellationToken.None);
```

## Enable and disable spell checking

The `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property controls whether spell checking is enabled. By default, the property is set to `true`. As the user enters text, misspellings are indicated.

However, for some text entry scenarios, such as entering a username, spell checking provides a negative experience and should be disabled by setting the `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property to `false`:

```xaml
<Entry ... IsSpellCheckEnabled="false" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> When the `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property is set to `false`, and a custom keyboard isn't being used, the native spell checker will be disabled. However, if a `Keyboard` has been set that disables spell checking, such as `Keyboard.Chat`, the `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property is ignored. Therefore, the property cannot be used to enable spell checking for a `Keyboard` that explicitly disables it.

## Enable and disable text prediction

The `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property controls whether text prediction and automatic text correction is enabled. By default, the property is set to `true`. As the user enters text, word predictions are presented.

However, for some text entry scenarios, such as entering a username, text prediction and automatic text correction provides a negative experience and should be disabled by setting the `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property to `false`:

```xaml
<Entry ... IsTextPredictionEnabled="false" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> When the `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property is set to `false`, and a custom keyboard isn't being used, text prediction and automatic text correction is disabled. However, if a `Keyboard` has been set that disables text prediction, the `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property is ignored. Therefore, the property cannot be used to enable text prediction for a `Keyboard` that explicitly disables it.

## Prevent text entry

Users can be prevented from modifying the text in an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> by setting the `IsReadOnly` property to `true`:

```xaml
<Entry Text="User input won't be accepted."
       IsReadOnly="true" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `IsReadonly` property does not alter the visual appearance of an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, unlike the `IsEnabled` property that also changes the visual appearance of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> to gray.

Commit message:

docs(.NET10/Android): Entry/Editor selection change tracking; add monikered tip blocks and samples; update ms.date (#2989)
Co-authored-by: Gerald Versluis <gerald.versluis@microsoft.com>

docs/user-interface/controls/entry.md, after:

---
title: "Entry"
description: "The .NET MAUI Entry allows you to enter and edit a single line of text."
ms.date: 05/13/2025
ms.custom: sfi-ropc-nochange
---

# Entry

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> allows you to enter and edit a single line of text. In addition, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> can be used as a password field.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> defines the following properties:

- `ClearButtonVisibility`, of type `ClearButtonVisibility`, controls whether a clear button is displayed, which enables the user to clear the text. The default value of this property ensures that a clear button isn't displayed.
- `HorizontalTextAlignment`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.TextAlignment>, defines the horizontal alignment of the text.
- `IsPassword`, of type `bool`, specifies whether the entry should visually obscure typed text.
- `ReturnCommand`, of type <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand>, defines the command to be executed when the return key is pressed.
- `ReturnCommandParameter`, of type `object`, specifies the parameter for the `ReturnCommand`.
- `ReturnType`, of type `ReturnType`, specifies the appearance of the return button.
- `VerticalTextAlignment`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.TextAlignment>, defines the vertical alignment of the text.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

In addition, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> defines a `Completed` event, which is raised when the user finalizes text in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> with the return key.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> derives from the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.InputView> class, from which it inherits the following properties:

- `CharacterSpacing`, of type `double`, sets the spacing between characters in the text content, including both the user-entered or displayed text and the placeholder text.
- `CursorPosition`, of type `int`, defines the position of the cursor within the editor.
- `FontAttributes`, of type `FontAttributes`, determines text style.
- `FontAutoScalingEnabled`, of type `bool`, defines whether the text will reflect scaling preferences set in the operating system. The default value of this property is `true`.
- `FontFamily`, of type `string`, defines the font family.
- `FontSize`, of type `double`, defines the font size.
- `IsReadOnly`, of type `bool`, defines whether the user should be prevented from modifying text. The default value of this property is `false`.
- `IsSpellCheckEnabled`, of type `bool`, controls whether spell checking is enabled.
- `IsTextPredictionEnabled`, of type `bool`, controls whether text prediction and automatic text correction is enabled.
- `Keyboard`, of type `Keyboard`, specifies the soft input keyboard that's displayed when entering text.
- `MaxLength`, of type `int`, defines the maximum input length.
- `Placeholder`, of type `string`, defines the text that's displayed when the control is empty.
- `PlaceholderColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, defines the color of the placeholder text.
- `SelectionLength`, of type `int`, represents the length of selected text within the control.
- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the text entered into the control.
- `TextColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, defines the color of the entered text.
- `TextTransform`, of type `TextTransform`, specifies the casing of the entered text.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

In addition, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.InputView> defines a `TextChanged` event, which is raised when the text in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> changes. The `TextChangedEventArgs` object that accompanies the `TextChanged` event has `NewTextValue` and `OldTextValue` properties, which specify the new and old text, respectively.

For information about specifying fonts on an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, see [Fonts](~/user-interface/fonts.md).

::: moniker range=">=net-maui-10.0"
> [!TIP]
> Android adds support for selection change notifications in .NET 10. On Android, the native control switches from `AppCompatEditText` to `MauiAppCompatEditText`, enabling selection change tracking for <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>. As the selection changes, the `CursorPosition` and `SelectionLength` properties are updated so you can react to selection moves.

To observe selection updates, handle property changes for `CursorPosition` and `SelectionLength`:

```csharp
entry.PropertyChanged += (s, e) =>
{
       if (e.PropertyName == nameof(Entry.CursorPosition) ||
              e.PropertyName == nameof(Entry.SelectionLength))
       {
              var start = entry.CursorPosition;
              var length = entry.SelectionLength;
              // Respond to selection change (Android .NET 10+)
       }
};
```

Alternatively, data bind the properties and react in your view model.
::: moniker-end

## Create an Entry

The following example shows how to create an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>:

```xaml
<Entry x:Name="entry"
       Placeholder="Enter text"
       TextChanged="OnEntryTextChanged"
       Completed="OnEntryCompleted" />
```

The equivalent C# code is:

```csharp
Entry entry = new Entry { Placeholder = "Enter text" };
entry.TextChanged += OnEntryTextChanged;
entry.Completed += OnEntryCompleted;
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> on Android:

:::image type="content" source="media/entry/entry.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a basic Entry on Android.":::

[!INCLUDE [Keyboard autoscroll manager](includes/keyboardautomanagerscroll.md)]

Entered text can be accessed by reading the `Text` property, and the `TextChanged` and `Completed` events signal that the text has changed or been completed.

The `TextChanged` event is raised when the text in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> changes, and the `TextChangedEventArgs` provide the text before and after the change via the `OldTextValue` and `NewTextValue` properties:

```csharp
void OnEntryTextChanged(object sender, TextChangedEventArgs e)
{
    string oldText = e.OldTextValue;
    string newText = e.NewTextValue;
    string myText = entry.Text;
}
```

The `Completed` event is raised when the user has ended input by pressing the <kbd>Return</kbd> key on the keyboard, or by pressing the Tab key on Windows. The handler for the event is a generic event handler:

```csharp
void OnEntryCompleted(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
   string text = ((Entry)sender).Text;
}
```

After the `Completed` event fires, any <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> specified by the `ReturnCommand` property is executed, with the `object` specified by the `ReturnCommandParameter` property being passed to the `ReturnCommand`.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.VisualElement> class, which is in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> inheritance hierarchy, also has `Focused` and `Unfocused` events.

## Set character spacing

Character spacing can be applied to an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> by setting the `CharacterSpacing` property to a `double` value:

```xaml
<Entry ...
       CharacterSpacing="10" />
```

The result is that characters in the text displayed by the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> are spaced `CharacterSpacing` device-independent units apart.

> [!NOTE]
> The `CharacterSpacing` property value is applied to the text displayed by the `Text` and `Placeholder` properties.

## Limit input length

The `MaxLength` property can be used to limit the input length that's permitted for the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>. This property should be set to a positive integer:

```xaml
<Entry ...
       MaxLength="10" />
```

A `MaxLength` property value of 0 indicates that no input will be allowed, and a value of `int.MaxValue`, which is the default value for an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, indicates that there is no effective limit on the number of characters that may be entered.

## Set the cursor position and text selection length

The `CursorPosition` property can be used to return or set the position at which the next character will be inserted into the string stored in the `Text` property:

```xaml
<Entry Text="Cursor position set"
       CursorPosition="5" />
```

The default value of the `CursorPosition` property is 0, which indicates that text will be inserted at the start of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>.

In addition, the `SelectionLength` property can be used to return or set the length of text selection within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>:

```xaml
<Entry Text="Cursor position and selection length set"
       CursorPosition="2"
       SelectionLength="10" />
```

The default value of the `SelectionLength` property is 0, which indicates that no text is selected.

## Display a clear button

The `ClearButtonVisibility` property can be used to control whether an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> displays a clear button, which enables the user to clear the text. This property should be set to a `ClearButtonVisibility` enumeration member:

- `Never` indicates that a clear button will never be displayed. This is the default value for the `ClearButtonVisibility` property.
- `WhileEditing` indicates that a clear button will be displayed in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, while it has focus and text.

The following example shows setting the property:

```xaml
<Entry Text=".NET MAUI"
       ClearButtonVisibility="WhileEditing" />
```

The following screenshot shows an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> on Android with the clear button enabled:

:::image type="content" source="media/entry/entry-clearbutton.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a basic Entry with a clear buttonon Android.":::

## Transform text

An <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> can transform the casing of its text, stored in the `Text` property, by setting the `TextTransform` property to a value of the `TextTransform` enumeration. This enumeration has four values:

- `None` indicates that the text won't be transformed.
- `Default` indicates that the default behavior for the platform will be used. This is the default value of the `TextTransform` property.
- `Lowercase` indicates that the text will be transformed to lowercase.
- `Uppercase` indicates that the text will be transformed to uppercase.

The following example shows transforming text to uppercase:

```xaml
<Entry Text="This text will be displayed in uppercase."
       TextTransform="Uppercase" />
```

## Obscure text entry

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> provides the `IsPassword` property which visually obscures entered text when it's set to `true`:

```xaml
<Entry IsPassword="true" />
```

The following screenshot shows an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> whose input has been obscured:

:::image type="content" source="media/entry/entry-password.png" alt-text="Screenshot of a basic Entry with IsPassword set to true.":::

## Customize the keyboard

The soft input keyboard that's presented when users interact with an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> can be set programmatically via the `Keyboard` property, to one of the following properties from the `Keyboard` class:

- `Chat` – used for texting and places where emoji are useful.
- `Default` – the default keyboard.
- `Email` – used when entering email addresses.
- `Numeric` – used when entering numbers.
- `Plain` – used when entering text, without any `KeyboardFlags` specified.
- `Telephone` – used when entering telephone numbers.
- `Text` – used when entering text.
- `Url` – used for entering file paths & web addresses.

The following example shows setting the `Keyboard` property:

```xaml
<Entry Keyboard="Chat" />
```

The `Keyboard` class also has a `Create` factory method that can be used to customize a keyboard by specifying capitalization, spellcheck, and suggestion behavior. `KeyboardFlags` enumeration values are specified as arguments to the method, with a customized `Keyboard` being returned. The `KeyboardFlags` enumeration contains the following values:

- `None` – no features are added to the keyboard.
- `CapitalizeSentence` – indicates that the first letter of the first word of each entered sentence will be automatically capitalized.
- `Spellcheck` – indicates that spellcheck will be performed on entered text.
- `Suggestions` – indicates that word completions will be offered on entered text.
- `CapitalizeWord` – indicates that the first letter of each word will be automatically capitalized.
- `CapitalizeCharacter` – indicates that every character will be automatically capitalized.
- `CapitalizeNone` – indicates that no automatic capitalization will occur.
- `All` – indicates that spellcheck, word completions, and sentence capitalization will occur on entered text.

The following XAML code example shows how to customize the default `Keyboard` to offer word completions and capitalize every entered character:

```xaml
<Entry Placeholder="Enter text here">
    <Entry.Keyboard>
        <Keyboard x:FactoryMethod="Create">
            <x:Arguments>
                <KeyboardFlags>Suggestions,CapitalizeCharacter</KeyboardFlags>
            </x:Arguments>
        </Keyboard>
    </Entry.Keyboard>
</Entry>
```

The equivalent C# code is:

```csharp
Entry entry = new Entry { Placeholder = "Enter text here" };
entry.Keyboard = Keyboard.Create(KeyboardFlags.Suggestions | KeyboardFlags.CapitalizeCharacter);
```

### Customize the return key

The appearance of the return key on the soft input keyboard, which is displayed when an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> has focus, can be customized by setting the `ReturnType` property to a value of the `ReturnType` enumeration:

- `Default` – indicates that no specific return key is required and that the platform default will be used.
- `Done` – indicates a "Done" return key.
- `Go` – indicates a "Go" return key.
- `Next` – indicates a "Next" return key.
- `Search` – indicates a "Search" return key.
- `Send` – indicates a "Send" return key.

The following XAML example shows how to set the return key:

```xaml
<Entry ReturnType="Send" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> The exact appearance of the return key is dependent upon the platform. On iOS, the return key is a text-based button. However, on Android and Windows, the return key is a icon-based button.

When the <kbd>Return</kbd> key is pressed, the `Completed` event fires and any <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> specified by the `ReturnCommand` property is executed. In addition, any `object` specified by the `ReturnCommandParameter` property will be passed to the <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> as a parameter. For more information about commands, see [Commanding](~/fundamentals/data-binding/commanding.md).

[!INCLUDE [Hide and show the soft input keyboard](includes/soft-input-extensions.md)]

The following example shows how to hide the soft input keyboard on an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> named `entry`, if it's currently showing:

```csharp
if (entry.IsSoftInputShowing())
    await entry.HideSoftInputAsync(System.Threading.CancellationToken.None);
```

## Enable and disable spell checking

The `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property controls whether spell checking is enabled. By default, the property is set to `true`. As the user enters text, misspellings are indicated.

However, for some text entry scenarios, such as entering a username, spell checking provides a negative experience and should be disabled by setting the `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property to `false`:

```xaml
<Entry ... IsSpellCheckEnabled="false" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> When the `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property is set to `false`, and a custom keyboard isn't being used, the native spell checker will be disabled. However, if a `Keyboard` has been set that disables spell checking, such as `Keyboard.Chat`, the `IsSpellCheckEnabled` property is ignored. Therefore, the property cannot be used to enable spell checking for a `Keyboard` that explicitly disables it.

## Enable and disable text prediction

The `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property controls whether text prediction and automatic text correction is enabled. By default, the property is set to `true`. As the user enters text, word predictions are presented.

However, for some text entry scenarios, such as entering a username, text prediction and automatic text correction provides a negative experience and should be disabled by setting the `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property to `false`:

```xaml
<Entry ... IsTextPredictionEnabled="false" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> When the `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property is set to `false`, and a custom keyboard isn't being used, text prediction and automatic text correction is disabled. However, if a `Keyboard` has been set that disables text prediction, the `IsTextPredictionEnabled` property is ignored. Therefore, the property cannot be used to enable text prediction for a `Keyboard` that explicitly disables it.

## Prevent text entry

Users can be prevented from modifying the text in an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> by setting the `IsReadOnly` property to `true`:

```xaml
<Entry Text="User input won't be accepted."
       IsReadOnly="true" />
```

> [!NOTE]
> The `IsReadonly` property does not alter the visual appearance of an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry>, unlike the `IsEnabled` property that also changes the visual appearance of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Entry> to gray.
