docs/user-interface/controls/hybridwebview.md, before:

---
title: HybridWebView
description: Learn how to use a HybridWebView to host HTML/JS/CSS content in a WebView, and communicate between that content and .NET.
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 09/20/2024
monikerRange: ">=net-maui-9.0"

#customer intent: As a developer, I want to host HTML/JS/CSS content in a web view so that I can publish the web app as a mobile app.
---

# HybridWebView

<!-- [![Browse sample.](~/media/code-sample.png) Browse the sample](/samples/dotnet/maui-samples/userinterface-hybridwebview) -->

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> enables hosting arbitrary HTML/JS/CSS content in a web view, and enables communication between the code in the web view (JavaScript) and the code that hosts the web view (C#/.NET). For example, if you have an existing React JS app, you could host it in a cross-platform .NET MAUI native app, and build the back-end of the app using C# and .NET.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> defines the following properties:

- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.DefaultFile>, of type `string?`, which specifies the file within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.HybridRoot> that should be served as the default file. The default value is *index.html*.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.HybridRoot>, of type `string?`, which is the path within the app's raw asset resources that contain the web app's contents. The default value is *wwwroot*, which maps to *Resources/Raw/wwwroot*.

In addition, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> defines a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.RawMessageReceived> event that's raised when a raw message is received. The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebViewRawMessageReceivedEventArgs> object that accompanies the event defines a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebViewRawMessageReceivedEventArgs.Message> property that contains the message.

Your app's C# code can invoke synchronous and asynchronous JavaScript methods within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` and `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` methods. For more information, see [Invoke JavaScript from C#](#invoke-javascript-from-c).

To create a .NET MAUI app with <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> you need:

- The web content of the app, which consists of static HTML, JavaScript, CSS, images, and other files.
- A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> control as part of the app's UI. This can be achieved by referencing it in the app's XAML.
- Code in the web content, and in C#/.NET, that uses the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> APIs to send messages between the two components.

The entire app, including the web content, is packaged and runs locally on a device, and can be published to applicable app stores. The web content is hosted within a native web view control and runs within the context of the app. Any part of the app can access external web services, but isn't required to.

## Create a .NET MAUI HybridWebView app

To create a .NET MAUI app with a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView>:

1. Open an existing .NET MAUI app project or create a new .NET MAUI app project.
1. Add your web content to the .NET MAUI app project.

    Your app's web content should be included as part of a .NET MAUI project as raw assets. A raw asset is any file in the app's *Resources\Raw* folder, and includes sub-folders. For a default <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView>, web content should be placed in the *Resources\Raw\wwwroot* folder, with the main file named *index.html*.

    A simple app might have the following files and contents:

    - *Resources\Raw\wwwroot\index.html* with content for the main UI:

        ```html
        <!DOCTYPE html>

        <html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
        <head>
            <meta charset="utf-8" />
            <title></title>
            <link rel="icon" href="data:,">
            <script src="scripts/HybridWebView.js"></script>
            <script>
                window.addEventListener(
                    "HybridWebViewMessageReceived",
                    function (e) {
                        var messageFromCSharp = document.getElementById("messageFromCSharp");
                        messageFromCSharp.value += '\r\n' + e.detail.message;
                    });
            </script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>HybridWebView app!</h1>
            <div>
                <button onclick="window.HybridWebView.SendRawMessage('Message from JS!')">Send message to C#</button>
            </div>
            <div>
                Messages from C#: <textarea readonly id="messageFromCSharp" style="width: 80%; height: 300px;"></textarea>
            </div>
        </body>
        </html>
        ```

    - *Resources\Raw\wwwroot\scripts\HybridWebView.js* with the standard <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> JavaScript library:

        ```js
        window.HybridWebView = {
            "Init": function () {
                function DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(message) {
                    const event = new CustomEvent("HybridWebViewMessageReceived", { detail: { message: message } });
                    window.dispatchEvent(event);
                }

                if (window.chrome && window.chrome.webview) {
                    // Windows WebView2
                    window.chrome.webview.addEventListener('message', arg => {
                        DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(arg.data);
                    });
                }
                else if (window.webkit && window.webkit.messageHandlers && window.webkit.messageHandlers.webwindowinterop) {
                    // iOS and MacCatalyst WKWebView
                    window.external = {
                        "receiveMessage": message => {
                            DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(message);
                        }
                    };
                }
                else {
                    // Android WebView
                    window.addEventListener('message', arg => {
                        DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(arg.data);
                    });
                }
            },

            "SendRawMessage": function (message) {
                window.HybridWebView.__SendMessageInternal('RawMessage', message);
            },

            "__SendMessageInternal": function (type, message) {

                const messageToSend = type + '|' + message;

                if (window.chrome && window.chrome.webview) {
                    // Windows WebView2
                    window.chrome.webview.postMessage(messageToSend);
                }
                else if (window.webkit && window.webkit.messageHandlers && window.webkit.messageHandlers.webwindowinterop) {
                    // iOS and MacCatalyst WKWebView
                    window.webkit.messageHandlers.webwindowinterop.postMessage(messageToSend);
                }
                else {
                    // Android WebView
                    hybridWebViewHost.sendMessage(messageToSend);
                }
            },

            "InvokeMethod": function (taskId, methodName, args) {
                if (methodName[Symbol.toStringTag] === 'AsyncFunction') {
                    // For async methods, we need to call the method and then trigger the callback when it's done
                    const asyncPromise = methodName(...args);
                    asyncPromise
                        .then(asyncResult => {
                            window.HybridWebView.__TriggerAsyncCallback(taskId, asyncResult);
                        })
                        .catch(error => console.error(error));
                } else {
                    // For sync methods, we can call the method and trigger the callback immediately
                    const syncResult = methodName(...args);
                    window.HybridWebView.__TriggerAsyncCallback(taskId, syncResult);
                }
            },

            "__TriggerAsyncCallback": function (taskId, result) {
                // Make sure the result is a string
                if (result && typeof (result) !== 'string') {
                    result = JSON.stringify(result);
                }

                window.HybridWebView.__SendMessageInternal('InvokeMethodCompleted', taskId + '|' + result);
            }
        }

        window.HybridWebView.Init();
        ```

    Then, add any additional web content to your project.

    > [!WARNING]
    > In some cases Visual Studio might add entries to the project's *.csproj* file that are incorrect. When using the default location for raw assets there shouldn't be any entries for these files or folders in the *.csproj* file.

1. Add the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> control to your app:

    ```xaml
    <Grid RowDefinitions="Auto,*"
          ColumnDefinitions="*">
        <Button Text="Send message to JavaScript"
                Clicked="OnSendMessageButtonClicked" />
        <HybridWebView x:Name="hybridWebView"
                       RawMessageReceived="OnHybridWebViewRawMessageReceived"
                       Grid.Row="1" />
    </Grid>
    ```

1. Use the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> APIs to send messages between the JavaScript and C# code:

    ```csharp
    private void OnSendMessageButtonClicked(object sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        hybridWebView.SendRawMessage($"Hello from C#!");
    }

    private async void OnHybridWebViewRawMessageReceived(object sender, HybridWebViewRawMessageReceivedEventArgs e)
    {
        await DisplayAlert("Raw Message Received", e.Message, "OK");
    }
    ```

    The messages above are classed as raw because no additional processing is performed. You can also encode data within the message to perform more advanced messaging.

## Invoke JavaScript from C\#

Your app's C# code can synchronously and asynchronously invoke JavaScript methods within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView>, with optional parameters and an optional return value. This can be achieved with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` and `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` methods:

- The `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` method runs the JavaScript code provided via a parameter and returns the result as a string.
- The `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method invokes a specified JavaScript method, optionally passing in parameter values, and returns a string containing the return value of the JavaScript method. Internally, parameters and return values are JSON encoded.

### Invoke synchronous JavaScript

Synchronous JavaScript methods can be invoked with the `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` and `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` methods. In the following example the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method is used to demonstrate invoking JavaScript that's embedded in an app's web content. For example, a simple Javascript method to add two numbers could be defined in your web content:

```javascript
function AddNumbers(a, b) {
    return a + b;
}
```

The `AddNumbers` JavaScript method can be invoked from C# with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method:

```csharp
double x = 123d;
double y = 321d;

var result = await hybridWebView.InvokeJavaScriptAsync<double>(
    "AddNumbers", // JavaScript method name
    HybridSampleJSContext.Default.Double, // JSON serialization info for return type
    [x, y], // Parameter values
    [HybridSampleJSContext.Default.Double, HybridSampleJSContext.Default.Double]); // JSON serialization info for each parameter
```

The method invocation requires specifying `JsonTypeInfo` objects that include serialization information for the types used in the operation. These objects are automatically created by including the following `partial` class in your project:

```csharp
[JsonSourceGenerationOptions(WriteIndented = true)]
[JsonSerializable(typeof(double))]
internal partial class HybridSampleJsContext : JsonSerializerContext
{
    // This type's attributes specify JSON serialization info to preserve type structure
    // for trimmed builds.
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `HybridSampleJsContext` class must be `partial` so that code generation can provide the implementation when the project is compiled. If the type is nested into another type, then that type must also be `partial`.

### Invoke asynchronous JavaScript

Asynchronous JavaScript methods can be invoked with the `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` and `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` methods. In the following example the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method is used to demonstrate invoking JavaScript that's embedded in an app's web content. For example, a Javascript method that asynchronously retrieves data could be defined in your web content:

```javascript
async function EvaluateMeWithParamsAndAsyncReturn(s1, s2) {
    const response = await fetch("/asyncdata.txt");
    if (!response.ok) {
            throw new Error(`HTTP error: ${response.status}`);
    }
    var jsonData = await response.json();
    jsonData[s1] = s2;

    return jsonData;
}
```

The `EvaluateMeWithParamsAndAsyncReturn` JavaScript method can be invoked from C# with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method:

```csharp
var asyncResult = await hybridWebView.InvokeJavaScriptAsync<Dictionary<string, string>>(
    "EvaluateMeWithParamsAndAsyncReturn", // JavaScript method name
    HybridSampleJSContext.Default.DictionaryStringString, // JSON serialization info for return type
    ["new_key", "new_value"], // Parameter values
    [HybridSampleJSContext.Default.String, HybridSampleJSContext.Default.String]); // JSON serialization info for each parameter
```

In this example, `asyncResult` is a `Dictionary<string, string>` containing the JSON data from the web request.

The method invocation requires specifying `JsonTypeInfo` objects that include serialization information for the types used in the operation. These objects are automatically created by including the following `partial` class in your project:

```csharp
[JsonSourceGenerationOptions(WriteIndented = true)]
[JsonSerializable(typeof(Dictionary<string, string>))]
[JsonSerializable(typeof(string))]
internal partial class HybridSampleJSContext : JsonSerializerContext
{
    // This type's attributes specify JSON serialization info to preserve type structure
    // for trimmed builds.  
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `HybridSampleJsContext` class must be `partial` so that code generation can provide the implementation when the project is compiled. If the type is nested into another type, then that type must also be `partial`.

Commit message:

HybridWebView/BlazorWebView updates (#2581)
* Default address changed.

* InvokeJavaScriptAsync changes return type.

docs/user-interface/controls/hybridwebview.md, after:

---
title: HybridWebView
description: Learn how to use a HybridWebView to host HTML/JS/CSS content in a WebView, and communicate between that content and .NET.
ms.topic: concept-article
ms.date: 10/28/2024
monikerRange: ">=net-maui-9.0"

#customer intent: As a developer, I want to host HTML/JS/CSS content in a web view so that I can publish the web app as a mobile app.
---

# HybridWebView

<!-- [![Browse sample.](~/media/code-sample.png) Browse the sample](/samples/dotnet/maui-samples/userinterface-hybridwebview) -->

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> enables hosting arbitrary HTML/JS/CSS content in a web view, and enables communication between the code in the web view (JavaScript) and the code that hosts the web view (C#/.NET). For example, if you have an existing React JS app, you could host it in a cross-platform .NET MAUI native app, and build the back-end of the app using C# and .NET.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> defines the following properties:

- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.DefaultFile>, of type `string?`, which specifies the file within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.HybridRoot> that should be served as the default file. The default value is *index.html*.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.HybridRoot>, of type `string?`, which is the path within the app's raw asset resources that contain the web app's contents. The default value is *wwwroot*, which maps to *Resources/Raw/wwwroot*.

In addition, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> defines a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView.RawMessageReceived> event that's raised when a raw message is received. The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebViewRawMessageReceivedEventArgs> object that accompanies the event defines a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebViewRawMessageReceivedEventArgs.Message> property that contains the message.

Your app's C# code can invoke synchronous and asynchronous JavaScript methods within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` and `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` methods. For more information, see [Invoke JavaScript from C#](#invoke-javascript-from-c).

To create a .NET MAUI app with <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> you need:

- The web content of the app, which consists of static HTML, JavaScript, CSS, images, and other files.
- A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> control as part of the app's UI. This can be achieved by referencing it in the app's XAML.
- Code in the web content, and in C#/.NET, that uses the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> APIs to send messages between the two components.

The entire app, including the web content, is packaged and runs locally on a device, and can be published to applicable app stores. The web content is hosted within a native web view control and runs within the context of the app. Any part of the app can access external web services, but isn't required to.

## Create a .NET MAUI HybridWebView app

To create a .NET MAUI app with a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView>:

1. Open an existing .NET MAUI app project or create a new .NET MAUI app project.
1. Add your web content to the .NET MAUI app project.

    Your app's web content should be included as part of a .NET MAUI project as raw assets. A raw asset is any file in the app's *Resources\Raw* folder, and includes sub-folders. For a default <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView>, web content should be placed in the *Resources\Raw\wwwroot* folder, with the main file named *index.html*.

    A simple app might have the following files and contents:

    - *Resources\Raw\wwwroot\index.html* with content for the main UI:

        ```html
        <!DOCTYPE html>

        <html lang="en" xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
        <head>
            <meta charset="utf-8" />
            <title></title>
            <link rel="icon" href="data:,">
            <script src="scripts/HybridWebView.js"></script>
            <script>
                window.addEventListener(
                    "HybridWebViewMessageReceived",
                    function (e) {
                        var messageFromCSharp = document.getElementById("messageFromCSharp");
                        messageFromCSharp.value += '\r\n' + e.detail.message;
                    });
            </script>
        </head>
        <body>
            <h1>HybridWebView app!</h1>
            <div>
                <button onclick="window.HybridWebView.SendRawMessage('Message from JS!')">Send message to C#</button>
            </div>
            <div>
                Messages from C#: <textarea readonly id="messageFromCSharp" style="width: 80%; height: 300px;"></textarea>
            </div>
        </body>
        </html>
        ```

    - *Resources\Raw\wwwroot\scripts\HybridWebView.js* with the standard <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> JavaScript library:

        ```js
        window.HybridWebView = {
            "Init": function () {
                function DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(message) {
                    const event = new CustomEvent("HybridWebViewMessageReceived", { detail: { message: message } });
                    window.dispatchEvent(event);
                }

                if (window.chrome && window.chrome.webview) {
                    // Windows WebView2
                    window.chrome.webview.addEventListener('message', arg => {
                        DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(arg.data);
                    });
                }
                else if (window.webkit && window.webkit.messageHandlers && window.webkit.messageHandlers.webwindowinterop) {
                    // iOS and MacCatalyst WKWebView
                    window.external = {
                        "receiveMessage": message => {
                            DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(message);
                        }
                    };
                }
                else {
                    // Android WebView
                    window.addEventListener('message', arg => {
                        DispatchHybridWebViewMessage(arg.data);
                    });
                }
            },

            "SendRawMessage": function (message) {
                window.HybridWebView.__SendMessageInternal('RawMessage', message);
            },

            "__SendMessageInternal": function (type, message) {

                const messageToSend = type + '|' + message;

                if (window.chrome && window.chrome.webview) {
                    // Windows WebView2
                    window.chrome.webview.postMessage(messageToSend);
                }
                else if (window.webkit && window.webkit.messageHandlers && window.webkit.messageHandlers.webwindowinterop) {
                    // iOS and MacCatalyst WKWebView
                    window.webkit.messageHandlers.webwindowinterop.postMessage(messageToSend);
                }
                else {
                    // Android WebView
                    hybridWebViewHost.sendMessage(messageToSend);
                }
            },

            "InvokeMethod": function (taskId, methodName, args) {
                if (methodName[Symbol.toStringTag] === 'AsyncFunction') {
                    // For async methods, we need to call the method and then trigger the callback when it's done
                    const asyncPromise = methodName(...args);
                    asyncPromise
                        .then(asyncResult => {
                            window.HybridWebView.__TriggerAsyncCallback(taskId, asyncResult);
                        })
                        .catch(error => console.error(error));
                } else {
                    // For sync methods, we can call the method and trigger the callback immediately
                    const syncResult = methodName(...args);
                    window.HybridWebView.__TriggerAsyncCallback(taskId, syncResult);
                }
            },

            "__TriggerAsyncCallback": function (taskId, result) {
                // Make sure the result is a string
                if (result && typeof (result) !== 'string') {
                    result = JSON.stringify(result);
                }

                window.HybridWebView.__SendMessageInternal('InvokeMethodCompleted', taskId + '|' + result);
            }
        }

        window.HybridWebView.Init();
        ```

    Then, add any additional web content to your project.

    > [!WARNING]
    > In some cases Visual Studio might add entries to the project's *.csproj* file that are incorrect. When using the default location for raw assets there shouldn't be any entries for these files or folders in the *.csproj* file.

1. Add the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> control to your app:

    ```xaml
    <Grid RowDefinitions="Auto,*"
          ColumnDefinitions="*">
        <Button Text="Send message to JavaScript"
                Clicked="OnSendMessageButtonClicked" />
        <HybridWebView x:Name="hybridWebView"
                       RawMessageReceived="OnHybridWebViewRawMessageReceived"
                       Grid.Row="1" />
    </Grid>
    ```

1. Use the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView> APIs to send messages between the JavaScript and C# code:

    ```csharp
    private void OnSendMessageButtonClicked(object sender, EventArgs e)
    {
        hybridWebView.SendRawMessage($"Hello from C#!");
    }

    private async void OnHybridWebViewRawMessageReceived(object sender, HybridWebViewRawMessageReceivedEventArgs e)
    {
        await DisplayAlert("Raw Message Received", e.Message, "OK");
    }
    ```

    The messages above are classed as raw because no additional processing is performed. You can also encode data within the message to perform more advanced messaging.

## Invoke JavaScript from C\#

Your app's C# code can synchronously and asynchronously invoke JavaScript methods within the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.HybridWebView>, with optional parameters and an optional return value. This can be achieved with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` and `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` methods:

- The `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` method runs the JavaScript code provided via a parameter and returns the result as a string.
- The `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method invokes a specified JavaScript method, optionally passing in parameter values, and specifies a generic argument that indicates the type of the return value. It returns an object of the generic argument type that contains the return value of the called JavaScript method. Internally, parameters and return values are JSON encoded.

### Invoke synchronous JavaScript

Synchronous JavaScript methods can be invoked with the `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` and `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` methods. In the following example the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method is used to demonstrate invoking JavaScript that's embedded in an app's web content. For example, a simple Javascript method to add two numbers could be defined in your web content:

```javascript
function AddNumbers(a, b) {
    return a + b;
}
```

The `AddNumbers` JavaScript method can be invoked from C# with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method:

```csharp
double x = 123d;
double y = 321d;

double result = await hybridWebView.InvokeJavaScriptAsync<double>(
    "AddNumbers", // JavaScript method name
    HybridSampleJSContext.Default.Double, // JSON serialization info for return type
    [x, y], // Parameter values
    [HybridSampleJSContext.Default.Double, HybridSampleJSContext.Default.Double]); // JSON serialization info for each parameter
```

The method invocation requires specifying `JsonTypeInfo` objects that include serialization information for the types used in the operation. These objects are automatically created by including the following `partial` class in your project:

```csharp
[JsonSourceGenerationOptions(WriteIndented = true)]
[JsonSerializable(typeof(double))]
internal partial class HybridSampleJsContext : JsonSerializerContext
{
    // This type's attributes specify JSON serialization info to preserve type structure
    // for trimmed builds.
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `HybridSampleJsContext` class must be `partial` so that code generation can provide the implementation when the project is compiled. If the type is nested into another type, then that type must also be `partial`.

### Invoke asynchronous JavaScript

Asynchronous JavaScript methods can be invoked with the `EvaluateJavaScriptAsync` and `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` methods. In the following example the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method is used to demonstrate invoking JavaScript that's embedded in an app's web content. For example, a Javascript method that asynchronously retrieves data could be defined in your web content:

```javascript
async function EvaluateMeWithParamsAndAsyncReturn(s1, s2) {
    const response = await fetch("/asyncdata.txt");
    if (!response.ok) {
            throw new Error(`HTTP error: ${response.status}`);
    }
    var jsonData = await response.json();
    jsonData[s1] = s2;

    return jsonData;
}
```

The `EvaluateMeWithParamsAndAsyncReturn` JavaScript method can be invoked from C# with the `InvokeJavaScriptAsync` method:

```csharp
Dictionary<string, string> asyncResult = await hybridWebView.InvokeJavaScriptAsync<Dictionary<string, string>>(
    "EvaluateMeWithParamsAndAsyncReturn", // JavaScript method name
    HybridSampleJSContext.Default.DictionaryStringString, // JSON serialization info for return type
    ["new_key", "new_value"], // Parameter values
    [HybridSampleJSContext.Default.String, HybridSampleJSContext.Default.String]); // JSON serialization info for each parameter
```

In this example, `asyncResult` is a `Dictionary<string, string>` that contains the JSON data from the web request.

The method invocation requires specifying `JsonTypeInfo` objects that include serialization information for the types used in the operation. These objects are automatically created by including the following `partial` class in your project:

```csharp
[JsonSourceGenerationOptions(WriteIndented = true)]
[JsonSerializable(typeof(Dictionary<string, string>))]
[JsonSerializable(typeof(string))]
internal partial class HybridSampleJSContext : JsonSerializerContext
{
    // This type's attributes specify JSON serialization info to preserve type structure
    // for trimmed builds.  
}
```

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `HybridSampleJsContext` class must be `partial` so that code generation can provide the implementation when the project is compiled. If the type is nested into another type, then that type must also be `partial`.
