docs/user-interface/controls/tableview.md, before:

---
title: "TableView"
description: "The .NET MAUI TableView displays a table of scrollable items that can be grouped into sections."
ms.date: 03/11/2022
---

# TableView

[![Browse sample.](~/media/code-sample.png) Browse the sample](/samples/dotnet/maui-samples/userinterface-tableview)

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> displays a table of scrollable items that can be grouped into sections. A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> is typically used for displaying items where each row has a different appearance, such as presenting a table of settings.

While <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> manages the appearance of the table, the appearance of each item in the table is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell>. .NET MAUI includes five cell types that are used to display different combinations of data, and you can also define custom cells that display any content you want.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> defines the following properties:

- `Intent`, of type `TableIntent`, defines the purpose of the table on iOS.
- `HasUnevenRows`, of type `bool`, indicates whether items in the table can have rows of different heights. The default value of this property is `false`.
- `Root`, of type `TableRoot`, defines the child of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>.
- `RowHeight`, of type `int`, determines the height of each row when `HasUnevenRows` is `false`.

The `HasUnevenRows` and `RowHeight` properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

The value of the `Intent` property helps to define the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> appearance on iOS only. This property should be set to a value of the `TableIntent` enumeration, which defines the following members:

- `Menu`, for presenting a selectable menu.
- `Settings`, for presenting a table of configuration settings.
- `Form`, for presenting a data input form.
- `Data`, for presenting data.

## Create a TableView

To create a table, create a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> object and set its `Intent` property to a `TableIntent` member. The child of a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> must be a `TableRoot` object, which is parent to one or more `TableSection` objects. Each `TableSection` consists of an optional title whose color can also be set, and one or more <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell> objects.

The following example shows how to create a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Menu">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Chapters">
            <TextCell Text="1. Introduction to .NET MAUI"
                      Detail="Learn about .NET MAUI and what it provides." />
            <TextCell Text="2. Anatomy of an app"
                      Detail="Learn about the visual elements in .NET MAUI" />
            <TextCell Text="3. Text"
                      Detail="Learn about the .NET MAUI controls that display text." />
            <TextCell Text="4. Dealing with sizes"
                      Detail="Learn how to size .NET MAUI controls on screen." />
            <TextCell Text="5. XAML vs code"
                      Detail="Learn more about creating your UI in XAML." />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

In this example, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> defines a menu using <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> objects:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView displaying a menu.":::

> [!NOTE]
> Each <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> can execute a command when tapped, provided that the `Command` property is set to a valid <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> implementation.

## Define cell appearance

Each item in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell> object, and the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell> type used defines the appearance of the cell's data. .NET MAUI includes the following built-in cells:

- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell>, which displays primary and secondary text on separate lines.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell>, which displays an image with primary and secondary text on separate lines.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell>, which displays text and a switch that can be switched on or off.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell>, which displays a label and text that's editable.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell>, which is a custom cell whose appearance is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View>. This cell type should be used when you want to fully define the appearance of each item in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>.

### Text cell

A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> displays primary and secondary text on separate lines. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> defines the following properties:

- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the primary text to be displayed.
- `TextColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, represents the color of the primary text.
- `Detail`, of type `string`, defines the secondary text to be displayed.
- `DetailColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, indicates the color of the secondary text.
- `Command`, of type <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand>, defines the command that's executed when the cell is tapped.
- `CommandParameter`, of type `object`, represents the parameter that's passed to the command.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

The following example shows using a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Menu">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Chapters">
            <TextCell Text="1. Introduction to .NET MAUI"
                      Detail="Learn about .NET MAUI and what it provides." />
            <TextCell Text="2. Anatomy of an app"
                      Detail="Learn about the visual elements in .NET MAUI" />
            <TextCell Text="3. Text"
                      Detail="Learn about the .NET MAUI controls that display text." />
            <TextCell Text="4. Dealing with sizes"
                      Detail="Learn how to size .NET MAUI controls on screen." />
            <TextCell Text="5. XAML vs code"
                      Detail="Learn more about creating your UI in XAML." />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView displaying a menu.":::

### Image cell

An <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell> displays an image with primary and secondary text on separate lines. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell> inherits the properties from <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell>, and defines the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageSource> property, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageSource>, which specifies the image to be displayed in the cell. This property is backed by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> object, which means it can be the target of data bindings, and be styled.

The following example shows using an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Menu">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Learn how to use your XBox">
            <ImageCell Text="1. Introduction"
                       Detail="Learn about your XBox and its capabilities."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
            <ImageCell Text="2. Turn it on"
                       Detail="Learn how to turn on your XBox."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
            <ImageCell Text="3. Connect your controller"
                       Detail="Learn how to connect your wireless controller."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
            <ImageCell Text="4. Launch a game"
                       Detail="Learn how to launch a game."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/imagecell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where each item is an ImageCell.":::

### Switch cell

A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> displays text and a switch that can be switched on or off. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> defines the following properties:

- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the text to display next to the switch.
- `On`, of type `bool`, represents whether the switch is on or off.
- `OnColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, indicates the color of the switch when in it's on position.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> also defines an `OnChanged` event that's raised when the switch changes state. The `ToggledEventArgs` object that accompanies this event defines a `Value` property, that indicates whether the switch is on or off.

The following example shows using a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Settings">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection>
            <SwitchCell Text="Airplane Mode"
                        On="False" />
            <SwitchCell Text="Notifications"
                        On="True" />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/switchcell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where each item is a SwitchCell.":::

### Entry cell

An <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> displays a label and text data that's editable. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> defines the following properties:

- `HorizontalTextAlignment`, of type `TextAlignment`, represents the horizontal alignment of the text.
- `Keyboard`, of type `Keyboard`, determines the keyboard to display when entering text.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label>, of type `string`,  represents the text to display to the left of the editable text.
- `LabelColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>,  defines the color of the label text.
- `Placeholder`, of type `string`, represents the text that's displayed when the `Text` property is empty.
- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the text that's editable.
- `VerticalTextAlignment`, of type `TextAlignment`, represents the vertical alignment of the text.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> also defines a `Completed` event that's raised when the user hits the return key, to indicate that editing is complete.

The following example shows using an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Settings">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection>
            <EntryCell Label="Login"
                       Placeholder="username" />
            <EntryCell Label="Password"
                       Placeholder="password" />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/entrycell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where each item is an EntryCell.":::

### View cell

A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> is a custom cell whose appearance is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View>. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> defines a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View> property, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View>, which defines the view that represents the content of the cell. This property is backed by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> object, which means it can be the target of data bindings, and be styled.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View> property is the content property of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> class, and therefore does not need to be explicitly set from XAML.

The following example shows using a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> to define the appearance of an item in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Settings">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Silent">
            <ViewCell>
                <Grid RowDefinitions="Auto,Auto"
                      ColumnDefinitions="0.5*,0.5*">
                    <Label Text="Vibrate"
                           Margin="10,10,0,0"/>
                    <Switch Grid.Column="1"
                            HorizontalOptions="End" />
                    <Slider Grid.Row="1"
                            Grid.ColumnSpan="2"
                            Margin="10"
                            Minimum="0"
                            Maximum="10"
                            Value="3" />
                </Grid>
            </ViewCell>
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

Inside the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell>, layout can be managed by any .NET MAUI layout. The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/viewcell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where the item is a ViewCell.":::

## Size items

By default, all cells of the same type in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> have the same height. However, this behavior can be changed with the `HasUnevenRows` and `RowHeight` properties. By default, the `HasUnevenRows` property is `false`.

The `RowHeight` property can be set to an `int` that represents the height of each item in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>, provided that `HasUnevenRows` is `false`. When `HasUnevenRows` is set to `true`, each item in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> can have a different height. The height of each item will be derived from the contents of each cell, and so each item will be sized to its content.

Individual cells can be programmatically resized at runtime by changing layout related properties of elements within the cell, provided that the `HasUnevenRows` property is `true`. The following example changes the height of the cell when it's tapped:

```csharp
void OnViewCellTapped(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
    label.IsVisible = !label.IsVisible;
    viewCell.ForceUpdateSize();
}
```

In this example, the `OnViewCellTapped` event handler is executed in response to the cell being tapped. The event handler updates the visibility of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> object and the `Cell.ForceUpdateSize` method updates the cell's size. If the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> has been made visible the cell's height will increase. If the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> has been made invisible the cell's height will decrease.

> [!WARNING]
> Overuse of dynamic item sizing can cause <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> performance to degrade.

## Right-to-left layout

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> can layout its content in a right-to-left flow direction by setting its `FlowDirection` property to `RightToLeft`. However, the `FlowDirection` property should ideally be set on a page or root layout, which causes all the elements within the page, or root layout, to respond to the flow direction:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="TableViewDemos.RightToLeftTablePage"
             Title="Right to left TableView"
             FlowDirection="RightToLeft">
    <TableView Intent="Settings">
        ...
    </TableView>
</ContentPage>
```

The default `FlowDirection` for an element with a parent is `MatchParent`. Therefore, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> inherits the `FlowDirection` property value from the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage>.

Commit message:

Add note about binding to collections being unsupported. (#2155)

docs/user-interface/controls/tableview.md, after:

---
title: "TableView"
description: "The .NET MAUI TableView displays a table of scrollable items that can be grouped into sections."
ms.date: 03/11/2022
---

# TableView

[![Browse sample.](~/media/code-sample.png) Browse the sample](/samples/dotnet/maui-samples/userinterface-tableview)

The .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> displays a table of scrollable items that can be grouped into sections. A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> is typically used for displaying items where each row has a different appearance, such as presenting a table of settings.

While <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> manages the appearance of the table, the appearance of each item in the table is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell>. .NET MAUI includes five cell types that are used to display different combinations of data, and you can also define custom cells that display any content you want.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> defines the following properties:

- `Intent`, of type `TableIntent`, defines the purpose of the table on iOS.
- `HasUnevenRows`, of type `bool`, indicates whether items in the table can have rows of different heights. The default value of this property is `false`.
- `Root`, of type `TableRoot`, defines the child of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>.
- `RowHeight`, of type `int`, determines the height of each row when `HasUnevenRows` is `false`.

The `HasUnevenRows` and `RowHeight` properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

The value of the `Intent` property helps to define the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> appearance on iOS only. This property should be set to a value of the `TableIntent` enumeration, which defines the following members:

- `Menu`, for presenting a selectable menu.
- `Settings`, for presenting a table of configuration settings.
- `Form`, for presenting a data input form.
- `Data`, for presenting data.

> [!NOTE]
> <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> isn't designed to support binding to a collection of items.

## Create a TableView

To create a table, create a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> object and set its `Intent` property to a `TableIntent` member. The child of a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> must be a `TableRoot` object, which is parent to one or more `TableSection` objects. Each `TableSection` consists of an optional title whose color can also be set, and one or more <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell> objects.

The following example shows how to create a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Menu">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Chapters">
            <TextCell Text="1. Introduction to .NET MAUI"
                      Detail="Learn about .NET MAUI and what it provides." />
            <TextCell Text="2. Anatomy of an app"
                      Detail="Learn about the visual elements in .NET MAUI" />
            <TextCell Text="3. Text"
                      Detail="Learn about the .NET MAUI controls that display text." />
            <TextCell Text="4. Dealing with sizes"
                      Detail="Learn how to size .NET MAUI controls on screen." />
            <TextCell Text="5. XAML vs code"
                      Detail="Learn more about creating your UI in XAML." />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

In this example, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> defines a menu using <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> objects:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView displaying a menu.":::

> [!NOTE]
> Each <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> can execute a command when tapped, provided that the `Command` property is set to a valid <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand> implementation.

## Define cell appearance

Each item in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell> object, and the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Cell> type used defines the appearance of the cell's data. .NET MAUI includes the following built-in cells:

- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell>, which displays primary and secondary text on separate lines.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell>, which displays an image with primary and secondary text on separate lines.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell>, which displays text and a switch that can be switched on or off.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell>, which displays a label and text that's editable.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell>, which is a custom cell whose appearance is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View>. This cell type should be used when you want to fully define the appearance of each item in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>.

### Text cell

A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> displays primary and secondary text on separate lines. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> defines the following properties:

- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the primary text to be displayed.
- `TextColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, represents the color of the primary text.
- `Detail`, of type `string`, defines the secondary text to be displayed.
- `DetailColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, indicates the color of the secondary text.
- `Command`, of type <xref:System.Windows.Input.ICommand>, defines the command that's executed when the cell is tapped.
- `CommandParameter`, of type `object`, represents the parameter that's passed to the command.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

The following example shows using a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Menu">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Chapters">
            <TextCell Text="1. Introduction to .NET MAUI"
                      Detail="Learn about .NET MAUI and what it provides." />
            <TextCell Text="2. Anatomy of an app"
                      Detail="Learn about the visual elements in .NET MAUI" />
            <TextCell Text="3. Text"
                      Detail="Learn about the .NET MAUI controls that display text." />
            <TextCell Text="4. Dealing with sizes"
                      Detail="Learn how to size .NET MAUI controls on screen." />
            <TextCell Text="5. XAML vs code"
                      Detail="Learn more about creating your UI in XAML." />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/menu.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView displaying a menu.":::

### Image cell

An <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell> displays an image with primary and secondary text on separate lines. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell> inherits the properties from <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TextCell>, and defines the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageSource> property, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageSource>, which specifies the image to be displayed in the cell. This property is backed by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> object, which means it can be the target of data bindings, and be styled.

The following example shows using an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ImageCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Menu">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Learn how to use your XBox">
            <ImageCell Text="1. Introduction"
                       Detail="Learn about your XBox and its capabilities."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
            <ImageCell Text="2. Turn it on"
                       Detail="Learn how to turn on your XBox."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
            <ImageCell Text="3. Connect your controller"
                       Detail="Learn how to connect your wireless controller."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
            <ImageCell Text="4. Launch a game"
                       Detail="Learn how to launch a game."
                       ImageSource="xbox.png" />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/imagecell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where each item is an ImageCell.":::

### Switch cell

A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> displays text and a switch that can be switched on or off. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> defines the following properties:

- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the text to display next to the switch.
- `On`, of type `bool`, represents whether the switch is on or off.
- `OnColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>, indicates the color of the switch when in it's on position.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> also defines an `OnChanged` event that's raised when the switch changes state. The `ToggledEventArgs` object that accompanies this event defines a `Value` property, that indicates whether the switch is on or off.

The following example shows using a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.SwitchCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Settings">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection>
            <SwitchCell Text="Airplane Mode"
                        On="False" />
            <SwitchCell Text="Notifications"
                        On="True" />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/switchcell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where each item is a SwitchCell.":::

### Entry cell

An <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> displays a label and text data that's editable. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> defines the following properties:

- `HorizontalTextAlignment`, of type `TextAlignment`, represents the horizontal alignment of the text.
- `Keyboard`, of type `Keyboard`, determines the keyboard to display when entering text.
- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label>, of type `string`,  represents the text to display to the left of the editable text.
- `LabelColor`, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Graphics.Color>,  defines the color of the label text.
- `Placeholder`, of type `string`, represents the text that's displayed when the `Text` property is empty.
- `Text`, of type `string`, defines the text that's editable.
- `VerticalTextAlignment`, of type `TextAlignment`, represents the vertical alignment of the text.

These properties are backed by <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> objects, which means that they can be targets of data bindings, and styled.

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> also defines a `Completed` event that's raised when the user hits the return key, to indicate that editing is complete.

The following example shows using an <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.EntryCell> to define the appearance of items in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Settings">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection>
            <EntryCell Label="Login"
                       Placeholder="username" />
            <EntryCell Label="Password"
                       Placeholder="password" />
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/entrycell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where each item is an EntryCell.":::

### View cell

A <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> is a custom cell whose appearance is defined by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View>. <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> defines a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View> property, of type <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View>, which defines the view that represents the content of the cell. This property is backed by a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.BindableProperty> object, which means it can be the target of data bindings, and be styled.

> [!NOTE]
> The <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.View> property is the content property of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> class, and therefore does not need to be explicitly set from XAML.

The following example shows using a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell> to define the appearance of an item in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>:

```xaml
<TableView Intent="Settings">
    <TableRoot>
        <TableSection Title="Silent">
            <ViewCell>
                <Grid RowDefinitions="Auto,Auto"
                      ColumnDefinitions="0.5*,0.5*">
                    <Label Text="Vibrate"
                           Margin="10,10,0,0"/>
                    <Switch Grid.Column="1"
                            HorizontalOptions="End" />
                    <Slider Grid.Row="1"
                            Grid.ColumnSpan="2"
                            Margin="10"
                            Minimum="0"
                            Maximum="10"
                            Value="3" />
                </Grid>
            </ViewCell>
        </TableSection>
    </TableRoot>
</TableView>
```

Inside the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ViewCell>, layout can be managed by any .NET MAUI layout. The following screenshot shows the resulting cell appearance:

:::image type="content" source="media/tableview/viewcell.png" alt-text="Screenshot of TableView where the item is a ViewCell.":::

## Size items

By default, all cells of the same type in a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> have the same height. However, this behavior can be changed with the `HasUnevenRows` and `RowHeight` properties. By default, the `HasUnevenRows` property is `false`.

The `RowHeight` property can be set to an `int` that represents the height of each item in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView>, provided that `HasUnevenRows` is `false`. When `HasUnevenRows` is set to `true`, each item in the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> can have a different height. The height of each item will be derived from the contents of each cell, and so each item will be sized to its content.

Individual cells can be programmatically resized at runtime by changing layout related properties of elements within the cell, provided that the `HasUnevenRows` property is `true`. The following example changes the height of the cell when it's tapped:

```csharp
void OnViewCellTapped(object sender, EventArgs e)
{
    label.IsVisible = !label.IsVisible;
    viewCell.ForceUpdateSize();
}
```

In this example, the `OnViewCellTapped` event handler is executed in response to the cell being tapped. The event handler updates the visibility of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> object and the `Cell.ForceUpdateSize` method updates the cell's size. If the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> has been made visible the cell's height will increase. If the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> has been made invisible the cell's height will decrease.

> [!WARNING]
> Overuse of dynamic item sizing can cause <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> performance to degrade.

## Right-to-left layout

<xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> can layout its content in a right-to-left flow direction by setting its `FlowDirection` property to `RightToLeft`. However, the `FlowDirection` property should ideally be set on a page or root layout, which causes all the elements within the page, or root layout, to respond to the flow direction:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="TableViewDemos.RightToLeftTablePage"
             Title="Right to left TableView"
             FlowDirection="RightToLeft">
    <TableView Intent="Settings">
        ...
    </TableView>
</ContentPage>
```

The default `FlowDirection` for an element with a parent is `MatchParent`. Therefore, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.TableView> inherits the `FlowDirection` property value from the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage>.
