docs/mac-catalyst/linking.md, before:

---
title: "Linking a .NET MAUI Mac Catalyst app"
description: "Learn about the .NET for Mac Catalyst linker, which is used to eliminate unused code from a .NET MAUI Mac Catalyst app in order to reduce its size."
ms.date: 04/11/2023
no-loc: [ ILLink ]
---

# Linking a .NET MAUI Mac Catalyst app

[!INCLUDE [Linker introduction and behavior](../macios/includes/linker-behavior.md)]

[!INCLUDE [Visual Studio for Mac end of life](~/includes/vsmac-eol.md)]

To configure linker behavior in Visual Studio for Mac:

1. In the **Solution Window**, right-click on your .NET MAUI app project and select **Properties**.
1. In the **Project Properties** window, select the **Build > Mac Catalyst > Build** tab.
1. In the **Project Properties** window, ensure the **Configuration** drop-down is set to **Release** and set the **Linker behavior** drop-down to your desired linker behavior:

    :::image type="content" source="media/linking/vsmac.png" alt-text="Screenshot of the linker behavior for Mac Catalyst in Visual Studio for Mac.":::

1. In the **Project Properties** window, click the **OK** button.

[!INCLUDE [Control the linker](../includes/linker-control.md)]

Commit message:

Remove VSMac content (#2474)
* Remove VSMac content.

* More VSMac content removal.

* Remove VSMac content.

* Remove VSMac content.

* Fix include link.

* Remove VSMac content.

* Remove VSMac content.

* Remove VSMac content.

* Remove VSMac content.

* Edit.

* Edits.

docs/mac-catalyst/linking.md, after:

---
title: "Linking a .NET MAUI Mac Catalyst app"
description: "Learn about the .NET for Mac Catalyst linker, which is used to eliminate unused code from a .NET MAUI Mac Catalyst app in order to reduce its size."
ms.date: 08/28/2024
no-loc: [ ILLink ]
---

# Linking a .NET MAUI Mac Catalyst app

[!INCLUDE [Linker introduction and behavior](../macios/includes/linker-behavior.md)]

To configure linker behavior in Visual Studio Code you should add the `$(MtouchLink)` build property to a property group in your app's *.csproj* file. This build property should be set to `None`, `SdkOnly`, or `Full`:

```xml
<PropertyGroup Condition="'$(Configuration)|$(TargetFramework)|$(Platform)'=='Debug|net8.0-maccatalyst|AnyCPU'">
  <MtouchLink>SdkOnly</MtouchLink>
</PropertyGroup>
```

Alternatively, you can specify the linker behavior via the CLI when building and publishing your app. For more information, see [Publish a .NET MAUI Mac Catalyst app](~/mac-catalyst/deployment/index.md).

> [!IMPORTANT]
> The `$(MtouchLink)` build property can be set separately for each build configuration for your app.

[!INCLUDE [Control the linker](../includes/linker-control.md)]
