docs/tutorials/notes-mvvm/includes/viewmodel-notes.md, before:

---
author: adegeo
ms.author: adegeo
ms.date: 03/21/2024
ms.topic: include
no-loc: ["Notes viewmodel", "AllNotes view", "ViewModels", "NotesViewModel.cs", "AllNotesPage.xaml", "AllNotesPage.xaml.cs"]
---

The final viewmodel-view pair is the **Notes viewmodel** and **AllNotes view**. Currently though, the view is binding directly to the model, which was deleted at the start of this tutorial. The goal in updating the **AllNotes view** is to move as much functionality as possible out of the XAML code-behind and put it in the viewmodel. Again, the benefit being that the view can change its design with little effect to your code.

## Notes viewmodel

Based on what the **AllNotes view** is going to display and what interactions the user will do, the **Notes viewmodel** must provide the following items:

- A collection of notes.
- A command to handle navigating to a note.
- A command to create a new note.
- Update the list of notes when one is created, deleted, or changed.

Create the **Notes viewmodel**:

01. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of Visual Studio, double-click on **ViewModels\\NotesViewModel.cs**.
01. Replace the code in this file with the following code:

    ```csharp
    using CommunityToolkit.Mvvm.Input;
    using System.Collections.ObjectModel;
    using System.Windows.Input;

    namespace Notes.ViewModels;

    internal class NotesViewModel: IQueryAttributable
    {
    }
    ```

    This code is the blank `NotesViewModel` where you'll add properties and commands to support the `AllNotes` view.

01. In the `NotesViewModel` class code, add the following properties:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="properties":::

    The `AllNotes` property is an `ObservableCollection` that stores all of the notes loaded from the device. The two commands will be used by the view to trigger the actions of creating a note or selecting an existing note.

01. Add a parameterless constructor to the class, which initializes the commands and loads the notes from the model:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="ctor":::

    Notice that the `AllNotes` collection uses the `Models.Note.LoadAll` method to fill the observable collection with notes. The `LoadAll` method returns the notes as the `Models.Note` type, but the observable collection is a collection of `ViewModels.NoteViewModel` types. The code uses the `Select` Linq extension to create viewmodel instances from the note models returned from `LoadAll`.

01. Create the methods targeted by the commands:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="commands":::

    Notice that the `NewNoteAsync` method doesn't take a parameter while the `SelectNoteAsync` does. Commands can optionally have a single parameter that is provided when the command is invoked. For the `SelectNoteAsync` method, the parameter represents the note that's being selected.

01. Finally, implement the `IQueryAttributable.ApplyQueryAttributes` method:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="query":::

    The **Note viewmodel** created in the previous tutorial step, used navigation when the note was saved or deleted. The viewmodel navigated back to the **AllNotes view**, which this viewmodel is associated with. This code detects if the query string contains either the `deleted` or `saved` key. The value of the key is the unique identifier of the note.

    If the note was **deleted**, that note is matched in the `AllNotes` collection by the provided identifier, and removed.

    There are two possible reasons a note is **saved**. The note was either just created or an existing note was changed. If the note is already in the `AllNotes` collection, it's a note that was updated. In this case, the note instance in the collection just needs to be refreshed. If the note is missing from the collection, it's a new note and must be added to the collection.

The code for the class should look like the following snippet:

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="full":::

## AllNotes view

Now that the viewmodel has been created, update the **AllNotes view** to point to the viewmodel properties. In the _Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml_ file, apply the following changes:

- Add the `xmlns:viewModels` XML namespace that targets the `Notes.ViewModels` .NET namespace.
- Add a `BindingContext` to the page.
- Remove the toolbar button's `Clicked` event and use the `Command` property.
- Change the `CollectionView` to bind its `ItemSource` to `AllNotes`.
- Change the `CollectionView` to use commanding to react to when the selected item changes.

Update the **AllNotes view**:

01. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of Visual Studio, double-click on **Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml**.
01. Paste in the following code:

    :::code language="xaml" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/Views/AllNotesPage.xaml" id="full" highlight="3,7,12,17,20-21":::

The toolbar no longer uses the `Clicked` event and instead uses a command.

The `CollectionView` supports commanding with the `SelectionChangedCommand` and `SelectionChangedCommandParameter` properties. In the updated XAML, the `SelectionChangedCommand` property is bound to the viewmodel's `SelectNoteCommand`, which means the command is invoked when the selected item changes. When the command is invoked, the `SelectionChangedCommandParameter` property value is passed to the command.

Look at the binding used for the `CollectionView`:

:::code language="xaml" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/Views/AllNotesPage.xaml" id="collection_view" highlight="5-6":::

The `SelectionChangedCommandParameter` property uses `Source={RelativeSource Self}` binding. The `Self` references the current object, which is the `CollectionView`. Notice that the binding path is the `SelectedItem` property. When the command is invoked by changing the selected item, the `SelectNoteCommand` command is invoked and the selected item is passed to the command as a parameter.

## Clean up the AllNotes code-behind

Now that the interaction with the view has changed from event handlers to commands, open the _Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml.cs_ file and replace all the code with a class that only contains the constructor:

01. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of Visual Studio, double-click on **Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml.cs**.

    > [!TIP]
    > You may need to expand **Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml** to show the file.

01. Replace the code with the following snippet:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/Views/AllNotesPage.xaml.cs":::

## Run the app

You can now run the app, and everything is working. However, there are two problems with how the app behaves:

- If you select a note, which opens the editor, press **Save**, and then try to select the same note, it doesn't work.
- Whenever a note is changed or added, the list of notes isn't reordered to show the latest notes at the top.

These two problems are fixed in the next tutorial step.

Commit message:

Update tutorials to use compiled bindings (#2804)
* Update code to .NET 9

* Use compiled bindings in first tutorial.

* Use compiled bindings in second tutorial.

docs/tutorials/notes-mvvm/includes/viewmodel-notes.md, after:

---
author: adegeo
ms.author: adegeo
ms.date: 02/26/2025
ms.topic: include
no-loc: ["Notes viewmodel", "AllNotes view", "ViewModels", "NotesViewModel.cs", "AllNotesPage.xaml", "AllNotesPage.xaml.cs"]
---

The final viewmodel-view pair is the **Notes viewmodel** and **AllNotes view**. Currently though, the view is binding directly to the model, which was deleted at the start of this tutorial. The goal in updating the **AllNotes view** is to move as much functionality as possible out of the XAML code-behind and put it in the viewmodel. Again, the benefit being that the view can change its design with little effect to your code.

## Notes viewmodel

Based on what the **AllNotes view** is going to display and what interactions the user will do, the **Notes viewmodel** must provide the following items:

- A collection of notes.
- A command to handle navigating to a note.
- A command to create a new note.
- Update the list of notes when one is created, deleted, or changed.

Create the **Notes viewmodel**:

01. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of Visual Studio, double-click on **ViewModels\\NotesViewModel.cs**.
01. Replace the code in this file with the following code:

    ```csharp
    using CommunityToolkit.Mvvm.Input;
    using System.Collections.ObjectModel;
    using System.Windows.Input;

    namespace Notes.ViewModels;

    internal class NotesViewModel: IQueryAttributable
    {
    }
    ```

    This code is the blank `NotesViewModel` where you'll add properties and commands to support the `AllNotes` view.

01. In the `NotesViewModel` class code, add the following properties:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="properties":::

    The `AllNotes` property is an `ObservableCollection` that stores all of the notes loaded from the device. The two commands will be used by the view to trigger the actions of creating a note or selecting an existing note.

01. Add a parameterless constructor to the class, which initializes the commands and loads the notes from the model:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="ctor":::

    Notice that the `AllNotes` collection uses the `Models.Note.LoadAll` method to fill the observable collection with notes. The `LoadAll` method returns the notes as the `Models.Note` type, but the observable collection is a collection of `ViewModels.NoteViewModel` types. The code uses the `Select` Linq extension to create viewmodel instances from the note models returned from `LoadAll`.

01. Create the methods targeted by the commands:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="commands":::

    Notice that the `NewNoteAsync` method doesn't take a parameter while the `SelectNoteAsync` does. Commands can optionally have a single parameter that is provided when the command is invoked. For the `SelectNoteAsync` method, the parameter represents the note that's being selected.

01. Finally, implement the `IQueryAttributable.ApplyQueryAttributes` method:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="query":::

    The **Note viewmodel** created in the previous tutorial step, used navigation when the note was saved or deleted. The viewmodel navigated back to the **AllNotes view**, which this viewmodel is associated with. This code detects if the query string contains either the `deleted` or `saved` key. The value of the key is the unique identifier of the note.

    If the note was **deleted**, that note is matched in the `AllNotes` collection by the provided identifier, and removed.

    There are two possible reasons a note is **saved**. The note was either just created or an existing note was changed. If the note is already in the `AllNotes` collection, it's a note that was updated. In this case, the note instance in the collection just needs to be refreshed. If the note is missing from the collection, it's a new note and must be added to the collection.

The code for the class should look like the following snippet:

:::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/ViewModels/NotesViewModel.cs" id="full":::

## AllNotes view

Now that the viewmodel has been created, update the **AllNotes view** to point to the viewmodel properties. In the _Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml_ file, apply the following changes:

- Add the `xmlns:viewModels` XML namespace that targets the `Notes.ViewModels` .NET namespace.
- Add a `BindingContext` to the page.
- Remove the toolbar button's `Clicked` event and use the `Command` property.
- Change the `CollectionView` to bind its `ItemSource` to `AllNotes`.
- Change the `CollectionView` to use commanding to react to when the selected item changes.

Update the **AllNotes view**:

01. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of Visual Studio, double-click on **Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml**.
01. Paste in the following code:

    :::code language="xaml" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/Views/AllNotesPage.xaml" id="full" highlight="3,6,8,13,18,21-22":::

The toolbar no longer uses the `Clicked` event and instead uses a command.

The `CollectionView` supports commanding with the `SelectionChangedCommand` and `SelectionChangedCommandParameter` properties. In the updated XAML, the `SelectionChangedCommand` property is bound to the viewmodel's `SelectNoteCommand`, which means the command is invoked when the selected item changes. When the command is invoked, the `SelectionChangedCommandParameter` property value is passed to the command.

Look at the binding used for the `CollectionView`:

:::code language="xaml" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/Views/AllNotesPage.xaml" id="collection_view" highlight="5-6":::

The `SelectionChangedCommandParameter` property uses `Source={RelativeSource Self}` binding. The `Self` references the current object, which is the `CollectionView`. Therefore, `x:DataType` specifies `CollectionView` as the type for the compiled binding. Notice that the binding path is the `SelectedItem` property. When the command is invoked by changing the selected item, the `SelectNoteCommand` command is invoked and the selected item is passed to the command as a parameter.

For the binding expression defined in the `SelectionChangedCommandParameter` property to compile, it's necessary to instruct the project to enable compiled bindings in expressions that specify the `Source` property. To do this edit the project file for your solution and add `<MauiEnableXamlCBindingWithSourceCompilation>true</MauiEnableXamlCBindingWithSourceCompilation>` within the `<PropertyGroup>` element:

```xml
<PropertyGroup>
  <MauiEnableXamlCBindingWithSourceCompilation>true</MauiEnableXamlCBindingWithSourceCompilation>
</PropertyGroup>
```

## Clean up the AllNotes code-behind

Now that the interaction with the view has changed from event handlers to commands, open the _Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml.cs_ file and replace all the code with a class that only contains the constructor:

01. In the **Solution Explorer** pane of Visual Studio, double-click on **Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml.cs**.

    > [!TIP]
    > You may need to expand **Views\\AllNotesPage.xaml** to show the file.

01. Replace the code with the following snippet:

    :::code language="csharp" source="../snippets/viewmodel-shared/Views/AllNotesPage.xaml.cs":::

## Run the app

You can now run the app, and everything is working. However, there are two problems with how the app behaves:

- If you select a note, which opens the editor, press **Save**, and then try to select the same note, it doesn't work.
- Whenever a note is changed or added, the list of notes isn't reordered to show the latest notes at the top.

These two problems are fixed in the next tutorial step.
