docs/xaml/fundamentals/essential-syntax.md, before:

---
title: "Essential .NET MAUI XAML syntax"
description: "This article explains the essential XAML syntax features of property elements and attached properties."
ms.date: 08/30/2024
---

# Essential XAML syntax

[![Browse sample.](~/media/code-sample.png) Browse the sample](/samples/dotnet/maui-samples/xaml-fundamentals)

XAML is mostly designed for instantiating and initializing objects. But often, properties must be set to complex objects that cannot easily be represented as XML strings, and sometimes properties defined by one class must be set on a child class. These two needs require the essential XAML syntax features of *property elements* and *attached properties*.

## Property elements

In .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) XAML, properties of classes are normally set as XML attributes:

```xaml
<Label Text="Hello, XAML!"
       VerticalOptions="Center"
       FontAttributes="Bold"
       FontSize="18"
       TextColor="Aqua" />
```

However, there is an alternative way to set a property in XAML:

```xaml
<Label Text="Hello, XAML!"
       VerticalOptions="Center"
       FontAttributes="Bold"
       FontSize="18">
    <Label.TextColor>
        Aqua
    </Label.TextColor>
</Label>
```

These two examples that specify the `TextColor` property are functionally equivalent, and enable the introduction of some basic terminology:

- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> is an  *object element*. It is a .NET MAUI object expressed as an XML element.
- `Text`,  `VerticalOptions`, `FontAttributes` and  `FontSize` are  *property attributes*. They are .NET MAUI properties expressed as XML attributes.
- In the second example, `TextColor` has become a  *property element*. It is a .NET MAUI property expressed as an XML element.

> [!NOTE]
> In a property element, the value of the property is always defined as the content between the property-element start and end tags.

Property-element syntax can also be used on more than one property of an object:

```xaml
<Label Text="Hello, XAML!"
       VerticalOptions="Center">
    <Label.FontAttributes>
        Bold
    </Label.FontAttributes>
    <Label.FontSize>
        Large
    </Label.FontSize>
    <Label.TextColor>
        Aqua
    </Label.TextColor>
</Label>
```

While property-element syntax might seem unnecessary, it's essential when the value of a property is too complex to be expressed as a simple string. Within the property-element tags you can instantiate another object and set its properties. For example, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> layout has properties named `RowDefinitions` and `ColumnDefinitions`, which are of type `RowDefinitionCollection` and `ColumnDefinitionCollection` respectively. These types are collections of `RowDefinition` and `ColumnDefinition` objects, and you typically use property element syntax to set them:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="XamlSamples.GridDemoPage"
             Title="Grid Demo Page">
    <Grid>
        <Grid.RowDefinitions>
            <RowDefinition Height="Auto" />
            <RowDefinition Height="*" />
            <RowDefinition Height="100" />
        </Grid.RowDefinitions>
        <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
            <ColumnDefinition Width="Auto" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="*" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="100" />
        </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
        ...
    </Grid>
</ContentPage>
```

## Attached properties

In the previous example you saw that the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> requires property elements for the `RowDefinitions` and `ColumnDefinitions` collections to define the rows and columns. This suggests that there must be a technique for indicating the row and column where each child of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> resides.

Within the tag for each child of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> you specify the row and column of that child using the `Grid.Row` and `Grid.Column` attributes, which have default values of 0. You can also indicate if a child spans more than one row or column with the `Grid.RowSpan` and `Grid.ColumnSpan` attributes, which have default values of 1.

The following example demonstrates placing children within a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="XamlSamples.GridDemoPage"
             Title="Grid Demo Page">
    <Grid>
        <Grid.RowDefinitions>
            <RowDefinition Height="Auto" />
            <RowDefinition Height="*" />
            <RowDefinition Height="100" />
        </Grid.RowDefinitions>
        <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
            <ColumnDefinition Width="Auto" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="*" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="100" />
        </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>

        <Label Text="Autosized cell"
               TextColor="White"
               BackgroundColor="Blue" />
        <BoxView Color="Silver"
                 Grid.Column="1" />
        <BoxView Color="Teal"
                 Grid.Row="1" />
        <Label Text="Leftover space"
               Grid.Row="1" Grid.Column="1"
               TextColor="Purple"
               BackgroundColor="Aqua"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />
        <Label Text="Span two rows (or more if you want)"
               Grid.Column="2" Grid.RowSpan="2"
               TextColor="Yellow"
               BackgroundColor="Blue"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />
        <Label Text="Span two columns"
               Grid.Row="2" Grid.ColumnSpan="2"
               TextColor="Blue"
               BackgroundColor="Yellow"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />
        <Label Text="Fixed 100x100"
               Grid.Row="2" Grid.Column="2"
               TextColor="Aqua"
               BackgroundColor="Red"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />

    </Grid>
</ContentPage>
```

This XAML results in the following layout:

:::image type="content" source="media/essential-syntax/grid.png" alt-text=".NET MAUI Grid layout.":::

The `Grid.Row`, `Grid.Column`, `Grid.RowSpan`, and `Grid.ColumnSpan` attributes appear to be properties of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class, but this class doesn't define anything named `Row`, `Column`, `RowSpan`, or `ColumnSpan`. Instead, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class defines four bindable properties named `RowProperty`, `ColumnProperty`, `RowSpanProperty`, and `ColumnSpanProperty`, that are special types of bindable properties known as *attached properties*. They are defined by the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class but set on children of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>.

> [!NOTE]
> When you wish to use these attached properties in code, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class provides static methods named `GetRow`, `SetRow`, `GetColumn`, `SetColumn`, `GetRowSpan`, `SetRowSpan`, `GetColumnSpan`, and `SetColumnSpan`.

Attached properties are recognizable in XAML as attributes containing both a class and a property name separated by a period. They are called *attached properties* because they are defined by one class (in this case, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>) but attached to other objects (in this case, children of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>). During layout, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> can interrogate the values of these attached properties to know where to place each child.

## Content properties

In the previous example, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> object was set to the `Content` property of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage>. However, the `Content` property wasn't referenced in the XAML but can be:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="XamlSamples.XamlPlusCodePage"
             Title="XAML + Code Page">
    <ContentPage.Content>
        <Grid>
            ...
        </Grid>
    </ContentPage.Content>
</ContentPage>
```

The `Content` property isn't required in XAML because elements defined for use in .NET MAUI XAML are allowed to have one property specified as the [`ContentProperty`](xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPropertyAttribute) attribute on the class:

```csharp
[ContentProperty("Content")]
public class ContentPage : TemplatedPage
{
    ...
}
```

Any property specified as the [`ContentProperty`](xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPropertyAttribute) of a class means that the property-element tags for the property are not required. Therefore, the example above specifies that any XAML content that appears between the start and end <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage> tags is assigned to the `Content` property.

Many classes also have [`ContentProperty`](xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPropertyAttribute) attribute definitions. For example, the content property of <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> is `Text`.

## Platform differences

.NET MAUI apps can customize UI appearance on a per-platform basis. This can be achieved in XAML using the `OnPlatform` and `On` classes:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="...">
    <ContentPage.Padding>
        <OnPlatform x:TypeArguments="Thickness">
            <On Platform="iOS" Value="0,20,0,0" />
            <On Platform="Android" Value="10,20,20,10" />
        </OnPlatform>
    </ContentPage.Padding>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

`OnPlatform` is a generic class and so you need to specify the generic type argument, in this case, `Thickness`, which is the type of `Padding` property. This is achieved with the `x:TypeArguments` XAML attribute. The `OnPlatform` class defines a `Default` property that can be set to a value that will be applied to all platforms:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="...">
    <ContentPage.Padding>
        <OnPlatform x:TypeArguments="Thickness" Default="20">
            <On Platform="iOS" Value="0,20,0,0" />
            <On Platform="Android" Value="10,20,20,10" />
        </OnPlatform>
    </ContentPage.Padding>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

In this example, the `Padding` property is set to different values on iOS and Android, with the other platforms being set to the default value.

The `OnPlatform` class also defines a `Platforms` property, which is an `IList` of `On` objects. Each `On` object can set the `Platform` and `Value` property to define the `Thickness` value for a specific platform. In addition, the `Platform` property of `On` is of type `IList<string>`, so you can include multiple platforms if the values are the same:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="...">
    <ContentPage.Padding>
        <OnPlatform x:TypeArguments="Thickness" Default="20">
            <On Platform="iOS, Android" Value="10,20,20,10" />
        </OnPlatform>
    </ContentPage.Padding>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

This is the standard way to set a platform-dependent `Padding` property in XAML.

> [!NOTE]
> If the `Value` property of an `On` object can't be represented by a single string, you can define property elements for it.

For more information, see [Customize UI appearance based on the platform](~/platform-integration/customize-ui-appearance.md#customize-ui-appearance-based-on-the-platform).

## Next steps

.NET MAUI XAML markup extensions enable properties to be set to objects or values that are referenced indirectly from other sources. XAML markup extensions are particularly important for sharing objects, and referencing constants used throughout an app.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [XAML markup extensions](markup-extensions.md)

Commit message:

Update essential-syntax.md (#2786)
* Update essential-syntax.md

Added an explanation of Left, Top, Right, and Bottom value ordering in XAML syntax.

* Update essential-syntax.md

* Edit.

---------

Co-authored-by: David Britch <davidbritch@users.noreply.github.com>

docs/xaml/fundamentals/essential-syntax.md, after:

---
title: "Essential .NET MAUI XAML syntax"
description: "This article explains the essential XAML syntax features of property elements and attached properties."
ms.date: 08/30/2024
---

# Essential XAML syntax

[![Browse sample.](~/media/code-sample.png) Browse the sample](/samples/dotnet/maui-samples/xaml-fundamentals)

XAML is mostly designed for instantiating and initializing objects. But often, properties must be set to complex objects that cannot easily be represented as XML strings, and sometimes properties defined by one class must be set on a child class. These two needs require the essential XAML syntax features of *property elements* and *attached properties*.

## Property elements

In .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) XAML, properties of classes are normally set as XML attributes:

```xaml
<Label Text="Hello, XAML!"
       VerticalOptions="Center"
       FontAttributes="Bold"
       FontSize="18"
       TextColor="Aqua" />
```

However, there is an alternative way to set a property in XAML:

```xaml
<Label Text="Hello, XAML!"
       VerticalOptions="Center"
       FontAttributes="Bold"
       FontSize="18">
    <Label.TextColor>
        Aqua
    </Label.TextColor>
</Label>
```

These two examples that specify the `TextColor` property are functionally equivalent, and enable the introduction of some basic terminology:

- <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> is an  *object element*. It is a .NET MAUI object expressed as an XML element.
- `Text`,  `VerticalOptions`, `FontAttributes` and  `FontSize` are  *property attributes*. They are .NET MAUI properties expressed as XML attributes.
- In the second example, `TextColor` has become a  *property element*. It is a .NET MAUI property expressed as an XML element.

> [!NOTE]
> In a property element, the value of the property is always defined as the content between the property-element start and end tags.

Property-element syntax can also be used on more than one property of an object:

```xaml
<Label Text="Hello, XAML!"
       VerticalOptions="Center">
    <Label.FontAttributes>
        Bold
    </Label.FontAttributes>
    <Label.FontSize>
        Large
    </Label.FontSize>
    <Label.TextColor>
        Aqua
    </Label.TextColor>
</Label>
```

While property-element syntax might seem unnecessary, it's essential when the value of a property is too complex to be expressed as a simple string. Within the property-element tags you can instantiate another object and set its properties. For example, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> layout has properties named `RowDefinitions` and `ColumnDefinitions`, which are of type `RowDefinitionCollection` and `ColumnDefinitionCollection` respectively. These types are collections of `RowDefinition` and `ColumnDefinition` objects, and you typically use property element syntax to set them:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="XamlSamples.GridDemoPage"
             Title="Grid Demo Page">
    <Grid>
        <Grid.RowDefinitions>
            <RowDefinition Height="Auto" />
            <RowDefinition Height="*" />
            <RowDefinition Height="100" />
        </Grid.RowDefinitions>
        <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
            <ColumnDefinition Width="Auto" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="*" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="100" />
        </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
        ...
    </Grid>
</ContentPage>
```

## Attached properties

In the previous example you saw that the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> requires property elements for the `RowDefinitions` and `ColumnDefinitions` collections to define the rows and columns. This suggests that there must be a technique for indicating the row and column where each child of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> resides.

Within the tag for each child of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> you specify the row and column of that child using the `Grid.Row` and `Grid.Column` attributes, which have default values of 0. You can also indicate if a child spans more than one row or column with the `Grid.RowSpan` and `Grid.ColumnSpan` attributes, which have default values of 1.

The following example demonstrates placing children within a <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="XamlSamples.GridDemoPage"
             Title="Grid Demo Page">
    <Grid>
        <Grid.RowDefinitions>
            <RowDefinition Height="Auto" />
            <RowDefinition Height="*" />
            <RowDefinition Height="100" />
        </Grid.RowDefinitions>
        <Grid.ColumnDefinitions>
            <ColumnDefinition Width="Auto" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="*" />
            <ColumnDefinition Width="100" />
        </Grid.ColumnDefinitions>

        <Label Text="Autosized cell"
               TextColor="White"
               BackgroundColor="Blue" />
        <BoxView Color="Silver"
                 Grid.Column="1" />
        <BoxView Color="Teal"
                 Grid.Row="1" />
        <Label Text="Leftover space"
               Grid.Row="1" Grid.Column="1"
               TextColor="Purple"
               BackgroundColor="Aqua"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />
        <Label Text="Span two rows (or more if you want)"
               Grid.Column="2" Grid.RowSpan="2"
               TextColor="Yellow"
               BackgroundColor="Blue"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />
        <Label Text="Span two columns"
               Grid.Row="2" Grid.ColumnSpan="2"
               TextColor="Blue"
               BackgroundColor="Yellow"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />
        <Label Text="Fixed 100x100"
               Grid.Row="2" Grid.Column="2"
               TextColor="Aqua"
               BackgroundColor="Red"
               HorizontalTextAlignment="Center"
               VerticalTextAlignment="Center" />

    </Grid>
</ContentPage>
```

This XAML results in the following layout:

:::image type="content" source="media/essential-syntax/grid.png" alt-text=".NET MAUI Grid layout.":::

The `Grid.Row`, `Grid.Column`, `Grid.RowSpan`, and `Grid.ColumnSpan` attributes appear to be properties of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class, but this class doesn't define anything named `Row`, `Column`, `RowSpan`, or `ColumnSpan`. Instead, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class defines four bindable properties named `RowProperty`, `ColumnProperty`, `RowSpanProperty`, and `ColumnSpanProperty`, that are special types of bindable properties known as *attached properties*. They are defined by the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class but set on children of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>.

> [!NOTE]
> When you wish to use these attached properties in code, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> class provides static methods named `GetRow`, `SetRow`, `GetColumn`, `SetColumn`, `GetRowSpan`, `SetRowSpan`, `GetColumnSpan`, and `SetColumnSpan`.

Attached properties are recognizable in XAML as attributes containing both a class and a property name separated by a period. They are called *attached properties* because they are defined by one class (in this case, <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>) but attached to other objects (in this case, children of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid>). During layout, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> can interrogate the values of these attached properties to know where to place each child.

## Content properties

In the previous example, the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Grid> object was set to the `Content` property of the <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage>. However, the `Content` property wasn't referenced in the XAML but can be:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="XamlSamples.XamlPlusCodePage"
             Title="XAML + Code Page">
    <ContentPage.Content>
        <Grid>
            ...
        </Grid>
    </ContentPage.Content>
</ContentPage>
```

The `Content` property isn't required in XAML because elements defined for use in .NET MAUI XAML are allowed to have one property specified as the [`ContentProperty`](xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPropertyAttribute) attribute on the class:

```csharp
[ContentProperty("Content")]
public class ContentPage : TemplatedPage
{
    ...
}
```

Any property specified as the [`ContentProperty`](xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPropertyAttribute) of a class means that the property-element tags for the property are not required. Therefore, the example above specifies that any XAML content that appears between the start and end <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPage> tags is assigned to the `Content` property.

Many classes also have [`ContentProperty`](xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.ContentPropertyAttribute) attribute definitions. For example, the content property of <xref:Microsoft.Maui.Controls.Label> is `Text`.

## Platform differences

.NET MAUI apps can customize UI appearance on a per-platform basis. This can be achieved in XAML using the `OnPlatform` and `On` classes:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="...">
    <ContentPage.Padding>
        <OnPlatform x:TypeArguments="Thickness">
            <On Platform="iOS" Value="0,20,0,0" />
            <On Platform="Android" Value="10,20,20,10" />
        </OnPlatform>
    </ContentPage.Padding>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

`OnPlatform` is a generic class and so you need to specify the generic type argument, in this case, `Thickness`, which is the type of `Padding` property. This is achieved with the `x:TypeArguments` XAML attribute. The `OnPlatform` class defines a `Default` property that can be set to a value that will be applied to all platforms:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="...">
    <ContentPage.Padding>
        <OnPlatform x:TypeArguments="Thickness" Default="20">
            <On Platform="iOS" Value="0,20,0,0" />
            <On Platform="Android" Value="10,20,20,10" />
        </OnPlatform>
    </ContentPage.Padding>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

In this example, the `Padding` property is set to different values on iOS and Android, with the other platforms being set to the default value.

> [!NOTE]  
> When positioning controls with the `Padding` and `Margin` properties, if four values are provided the order is left, top, right, bottom. For more information, see [Position controls](~/user-interface/align-position.md#position-controls).

The `OnPlatform` class also defines a `Platforms` property, which is an `IList` of `On` objects. Each `On` object can set the `Platform` and `Value` property to define the `Thickness` value for a specific platform. In addition, the `Platform` property of `On` is of type `IList<string>`, so you can include multiple platforms if the values are the same:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             x:Class="...">
    <ContentPage.Padding>
        <OnPlatform x:TypeArguments="Thickness" Default="20">
            <On Platform="iOS, Android" Value="10,20,20,10" />
        </OnPlatform>
    </ContentPage.Padding>
    ...
</ContentPage>
```

This is the standard way to set a platform-dependent `Padding` property in XAML.

> [!NOTE]
> If the `Value` property of an `On` object can't be represented by a single string, you can define property elements for it.

For more information, see [Customize UI appearance based on the platform](~/platform-integration/customize-ui-appearance.md#customize-ui-appearance-based-on-the-platform).

## Next steps

.NET MAUI XAML markup extensions enable properties to be set to objects or values that are referenced indirectly from other sources. XAML markup extensions are particularly important for sharing objects, and referencing constants used throughout an app.

> [!div class="nextstepaction"]
> [XAML markup extensions](markup-extensions.md)
