docs/whats-new/dotnet-docs-maui-mod0.md, before:

---
title: ".NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs: What's new for December 2023"
description: "What's new in the .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs for December 2023."
ms.custom: December-2023
ms.date: 01/08/2024
---

# .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs: What's new for December 2023

Welcome to what's new in the .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs for December 2023. This article lists some of the major changes to docs during this period.

## Android

### New articles

- [Android emulator overview](../android/emulator/index.md)

## Home

### Updated articles

- [Troubleshooting known issues](../troubleshooting.md)

## Migration from Xamarin.Forms

### New articles

- [Xamarin.Forms UWP project migration](../migration/uwp-projects.md)

### Updated articles

- [Manually upgrade a Xamarin.Forms app to a multi-project .NET MAUI app](../migration/multi-project-to-multi-project.md)
- [Upgrade Xamarin.Android, Xamarin.iOS, and Xamarin.Mac projects to .NET](../migration/native-projects.md)

## Platform integration

### Updated articles

- [Configure multi-targeting](../platform-integration/configure-multi-targeting.md)

## User interface

### Updated articles

- [Display pop-ups](../user-interface/pop-ups.md)

## Community contributors

The following people contributed to the .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs during this period. Thank you! Learn how to contribute by following the links under "Get involved" in the [what's new landing page](index.yml).

- [thimanshu1993](https://github.com/thimanshu1993) - Himanshu Tyagi ![1 pull requests.](https://img.shields.io/badge/Merged%20Pull%20Requests-1-green)

Commit message:

Initial draft of what's new in March

docs/whats-new/dotnet-docs-maui-mod0.md, after:

---
title: ".NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs: What's new for March 2024"
description: "What's new in the .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs for March 2024."
ms.custom: March-2024
ms.date: 04/02/2024
---

# .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs: What's new for March 2024

Welcome to what's new in the .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs for March 2024. This article lists some of the major changes to docs during this period.

## Home

### Updated articles

- [Troubleshooting known issues](troubleshooting.md)

## Platform integration

### Updated articles

- [Native embedding](../platform-integration/native-embedding.md)

## iOS

### New articles

- [Apple privacy manifest](../ios/privacy-manifest.md)

## iOS and Mac Catalyst

### Updated articles

- [Apple universal links](../macios/universal-links.md)

## User interface

### Updated articles

- [Visual states](../user-interface/visual-states.md)

## Community contributors

The following people contributed to the .NET Multi-platform App UI (.NET MAUI) docs during this period. Thank you! Learn how to contribute by following the links under "Get involved" in the [what's new landing page](index.yml).

- [pictos](https://github.com/pictos) - Pedro Jesus ![1 pull requests.](https://img.shields.io/badge/Merged%20Pull%20Requests-1-green)
- [TrueMoniker](https://github.com/TrueMoniker) -  ![1 pull requests.](https://img.shields.io/badge/Merged%20Pull%20Requests-1-green)
